the first digit:2 presented to TSG for approval;y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
Introduction1 ScopeThe present document shows the service requirements from a Law Enforcement point of view only.
In the case of a reference to aES 201 158 ( April ): "Lawful Interception; Requirements for network functions".
ANSI J-STD-025-A (April ): "Lawfully Authorised Electronic Surveillance".060: "General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service description".
OMA-AD-PoC-V2_1--A.179 "Functional architecture and information flows to support MCPPT Stage 2".
As defined in TS 23.214 , represents PLMN with architecture enhancements for control and user plane separation of EPC nodes.
Voice over IPWLAN Wireless LANWebRTC Web Real Time CommunicationsWWSF WebRTC Web Server FunctionThe following figures contain the reference configuration for the lawful interception.
Intercept configurations for HLR and IMS are shown in figures 1c and 1d.
The intercept configurations for IMS conferencing is shown in figure 1f.
The CC intercept configuration for IMS-based VoIP is shown in figure 1g. Intercept configurations for LALS are shown in figure 1h.
The intercept configuration for Non-Local ID at IBCF and MGCF is shown in figure 1i.
The intercept configuration for S8HR VoLTE in the visited PLMN is shown in figure 1j.
The intercept configuration for Push to Talk over Cellular (PTC) is shown in figure 1k and 1l.
Within the present document PTC encompasses PoC as a service and Mission Critical Push-To-Talk (MCPTT) services.
The CSP Cell Supplemental Information configuration is shown in figure 1m. The various entities and interfaces are described in more detail in the succeeding clauses.
In addition to CC data, the LI solution for UMTS/EPS offers generation of IRI records from respective control plane (signalling) messages.
The IP layer connectivity service is needed to support application layer TS 29.234service provision to UMTS/GSM/EPS customers.
This is used to obtain cell supplemental information held by the CSP and provide it to the LEA.
In particular it delivers geo-location or civic location of the cell site to the LEA.
More detail is contained in clause 22.NOTE 3: For IMS, figure 1d relates to the provision of IRI for SIP messages handled by the CSCF.
The ADMF:- keeps the intercept activities of individual LEAs separate;Every physical 3G ICE is linked by its own X1_1-interface to the ADMF.
Consequently, every single 3G ICE performs interception (activation, deactivation, interrogation as well as invocation) independently from other 3G ICEs.
The same identities (where available) are used as target identities for VoLTE interception in the VPLMN with S8HR.
(Note that intercept content of communications options do not apply at the CSCF, HLR, LI LCS Client and AAA server).
Furthermore the delivery function which is not requested has to be "pseudo-activated", in order to prevent error cases at invocation.
As an option, only a single DF2 is used by and known to every 3G ICE.
Figure 10 shows the information flow for the interrogation of the Lawful Interception.
Figure 11 shows an extraction from the reference configuration in figure 1a which is relevant for the invocation of the lawful interception.
The two stublines towards the LEMF are established in parallel to the call set up.
For both stublines the address is used which has been provided during activation.
Figure 14 shows an SMS transfer from the 3G MSC Server to the LEMF.
This event is generated at the beginning of a call when the 3G MSC Server attempts to reach the subscriber.
This information will be delivered to the DF2 if available:For MO-SMS the event is generated in the 3G MSC Server.
For subscriber controlled inputs - a SCI-event is generated with information about the SCI.
This event will be used to report one update location message to the HLR for a target.
A typical MAP message such as "MAP_SEND_AUTHENTICATION" (clause 8.5 of TS 29.002 ) could trigger the generation of information to the DF2.
They are included for completeness, but are beyond the scope of this specification.
NOTE 4: VoidNational regulations on a per interception basis Non-communications-associated IRI (e.g. those identified by the HSS) are not affected by this requirement.
Dependent on national requirements, delivery shall occur in the following cases:- when the 3G SGSN receives notification that recipient MS has received the SMS successfully.
The duplicated packets with additional information in a header, as described in 7.2.1, are sent to DF3 for further delivery to the LEA.
Figure 21 shows the transfer of intercept related information to the DF2.
identifier;The IRI There are several different events in which the information is sent to the DF2 if this is required.
When an attach activation is generated from the mobile to serving 3G G SN this event is generated.
These elements will be delivered to the DF2 if available:When a PDP context activation is generated a PDP context activation-event is generated.
However, the absence of this information does not imply that interception has not started in the old location SGSN for an active PDP context.
The recipient MS This event will be generated if an active PDP context for the target is modified.
These elements will be delivered to the DF2 if available:This event will be generated if interception has started for the already attached target.
Interception of a user PDP context IP stream will occur as described in clause 7.2.
Refer to clause 20 for the description of related lawful interception capabilities.
The target identifier used to trigger the intercept will also be sent with the SIP message.
The data have to be transmitted either "en clair" or encrypted with all elements to let the LEMF decrypt the data.
authentication;Through the use of user access restrictions, no unauthorised network entities or remote equipment The transmission of the IRI - CUG/VPN;- CLIP;- encryption.
The HI2 and HI3 interfaces represent the interfaces between the LEA and two delivery functions.
This includes the case where the PDG is in the intercepting carrier's network (whether it be home or visited).
A set of possible elements as shown below is used to generate the events.
Parameters sent from the PDG, WAG or AAA server is dependent on what is available at the network element.
Information Events for WLAN Interworking Event Records - WAGFor I-WLAN Access Initiation including I-WLAN re-authentication, for both I-WLAN Access Initiation-event is generated.
The elements, shown in Table 4, will be delivered to the DF2, if available, by the AAA server.
For WLAN Access Termination or the immediate purging of a user from a WLAN access, a WLAN access termination-event is generated.
The elements, shown in Table 5, will be delivered to the DF2, if available, by the AAA server.
Table 6a: I-WLAN Tunnel Establishment - WAGAt I-WLAN Tunnel Disconnect, a I-WLAN tunnel disconnect event is generated.
The elements, shown in Table 10,10a, and Table 11, will be delivered to the DF2, if available, by the PDG, WAG or AAA server, respectively.
A packet flow is defined as the 6-tuple of source/destination IP address/port number and the layer 4 protocol and WLAN tunnel.
The expiration of a configurable timer per intercept (called a Summary Timer).
Figure 10.2 shows the transfer of intercept related information to the DF2.
A set of possible elements as shown in Table 10.2.2 are used to generate the events.
The elements, shown in Table 10.,3.1 will be delivered to the DF2, if available, by the BM-SC.
A new Service Joining Event For MBMS Service Leaving, a Service Leaving event is generated.
The elements, shown in Table 10.3.2 will be delivered to the DF2, if available, by the BM-SC.
The elements, shown in Table 10.3.3 will be delivered to the DF2, if available, by the BM-SC.
A new Start of Interception with Service Active Event For MBMS Subscription Activation, a Subscription Activation event is generated.
The elements, shown in Table 10.3.4 will be delivered to the DF2, if available, by the BM-SC.
If Subscription Activation is performed simultaneously for more than one service, a separate event For MBMS Subscription Modification, a Subscription Modification event is generated.
The elements, shown in Table 10.3.5, will be delivered to the DF2, if available, by the BM-SC.
If Subscription Modification is performed simultaneously for more than one service, a separate event For MBMS Subscription Termination, a Subscription Termination event is generated.
The elements, shown in Table 10.3.6 will be delivered to the DF2, if available, by the BM-SC.
If Subscription Termination is performed simultaneously for more than one service, a separate event 11 IMS Conference Services1.
For example, the starting and ending or a conference as well as any parties joined or removed from the conference call are reported.
The duplicated packets with additional information in the header, as described in the following clauses, are sent to DF3 for further delivery.
For a conference call that is the target of interception, the MRFP duplicates the CC for the conference.
When a target provisioned or requested conference or a conference that is the target of interception is started.
When a party unsuccessfully attempts to join the target's conference or a conference that is the target of interception.
When there is an unsuccessful attempt to terminate a target provisioned or requested conference or a conference that is the target of interception.
The public IP Address of the HeNB is provided to the HeNB location verifying node.
Details about information included in the ME Identity and the relationship with IMEI needs to be considered.
The events trigger the transmission of the information from the nodes to DF2.
Available IEs from this set of elements as shown below can be extended in the nodes, if this is necessary as a national option.
DF2 can extend available information if this is necessary as a national option.
When a bearer deactivation is generated a bearer deactivation-event is generated by the S-GW/PDN-GW.
The event In this case, the RAT type indicates the new access after the handover.
The Serving Evolved Packet System report event is generated at the HSS, when the HSS has detected that the target has roamed.
A packet flow is defined as the 6-tuple of source/destination IP address/port number and the layer 4 protocol and EPS bearer.
The expiration of a configurable timer per intercept (called a Summary Timer).
event will be used to report any change of association between IMSI or MSISDN of the target.
This event "Cancel Location" will be used to report to DF2 when HSS send to MME one cancel location or purge to serving system.
This event will be used to report one update location to the HSS for a target.
However, when different protocols (i.e. GTP and PMIP) are used in the network, different values can be generated by different nodes.
PMIP Attach/tunnel activation;- PMIP session modification- PMIP PDN-GW initiated PDN-disconnection;A set of elements as shown below can be associated with the events.
The events trigger the transmission of the information from the nodes to DF2.
Available IEs from this set of elements as shown below can be extended in the nodes, if this is necessary as a national option.
DF2 can extend available information if this is necessary as a national option.
A packet flow is defined as the 6-tuple of source/destination IP address/port number and the layer 4 protocol and EPS bearer.
The expiration of a configurable timer per intercept (called a Summary Timer).
The events trigger the transmission of the information from the nodes to DF2.
Available IEs from this set of elements as shown below can be extended in the nodes, if this is necessary as a national option.
DF2 can extend available information if this is necessary as a national option.
In case GTP protocol is used over s2a interface, elements from table 12.2.1.2 are included in the applicable events.
The duplicated packets with additional information in a header are sent to DF3 for further delivery to the LEA.
A packet flow is defined as the 6-tuple of source/destination IP address/port number and the layer 4 protocol and EPS bearer.
The expiration of a configurable timer per intercept (called a Summary Timer).
event will be only used to report when there is a change of association between IMSI, MSISDN or IMEI of the target.
Intercept Related Information (Events) are serving system, subscriber record change, registration termination, and location information request.
The Serving Evolved Packet System report event is generated at the HSS, when the HSS has detected that the target has roamed.
Such events could be mainly triggered by Diameter messages such as:The elements of table 12.5.3.5 will be delivered to the DF2, if available.
The event Separate events are defined for the specific protocol (PMIP, DSMIP, GTP).
The parameter applicable to the tunnel activation event, as defined in the related clauses, will be delivered to the DF2 if available.
The elements listed in clause 12.2.3.4 will be delivered to the DF2 if available.
This event will be only used to report when there is a change of association between IMSI, MSISDN or IMEI of the target.
As defined in clause 15.2, a PDN Gateway can also provide the CC Intercept Function for an IMS-based VoLTE.
Figure 12.1.4 also shows an X2 reference point between SX3LIF and DF2.
Home Node B (HNB) and Home enhanced Node B (HeNB) are jointly referred to as H(e)NB as defined in TS 22.220 .
In both cases, the media passes through the CC Intercept Function present on the side of target's access network.
The CC Interception Triggering Function sends the CC intercept trigger to the CC Intercept Function according 15.2.1.1.
Note that the Evolved Serving System message (when EPS is part of the IP-CAN) also indicates to the LEMF that the target is roaming.
Examples of such supplemental services include diversion services such as call forwarding (all calls, busy calls, etc.).
If an event for / from a GCSE user occurs, the GCSE ASshall send the relevant data to the DF2.
When the GCS AS successfully releases a GCSE communications group in which a member is a target of interception.
When a user is successfully added to a GCSE communications group in which a member is a target of interception.
Table 16.7: User Added- When a user is successfully dropped from a GCSE communications group in which a member is a target of interception.
When the target of interception changes the uplink and downlink connection method from not connected to one of the connected connection methods, and vice versa.
Table 16.11: Modification of Target Connection to GCSE AS17 Interception for Proximity ServicesProximity Service (ProSe) are specified in TS 23.303 .
This includes Direct Discovery where two UEs Figure 17.1-1: ProSe Direct Discovery Intercept configurationThe target identity for ProSe Direct Discovery interception is the IMSI.
This includes one to many communications among Public Safety ProSe UEs with such communication occuring while the UEs are in proximity.
There are several procedures that takes place with network elements as part of a typical one-to-many commuication.
After such a communication, the UE reports the relevant usage information to the ProSe Function.
This clause details the interception at the ProSe Function and ProSe Key Management Function.
Editor's note: Interception of ProSe one-to-many communication with the group as the target is FFS.
In such case all the requirements specified for EPS interception in clause 12 apply.
PDN connection(s) used for relaying only carry communications for the ProSe remote UEs.
Register location (clause 7.4.14);The above events 1) Intercepted SIP event as described in clause 7A.3.0a.
Registration termination (clause 7A.2.3.3);The above events SMS over NAS reporting uses the architecture and interfaces defined in Clause 12 Lawful Interception for Evolved Packet System.
Register location (clauses 12.2.3.17, 12.4.3.20)The above events For SMS-MO, the event is generated in the MME.
For MMS messages to the target with Non-Local ID, the target are identified from TO, CC and BCC fields.
The interception The MMS architecture is provided in Clause 5 of MMS Architecture .
The events trigger the transmission of the information from the nodes to DF2.
Available IEs from this set of elements as shown below can be extended in the nodes, if this is necessary as a national option.
DF2 can extend available information if this is necessary as a national option.
The MMS Send event is generated at the MMS Proxy-Relay, when the MMS Proxy-Relay sends a M-Send.conf (as defined in ) to the target.
Table 18.3.3.4: Information Elements for MMS Notification Response EventThe elements of Table 18.3.3.5 will be delivered to the DF2, if available.
Table 18.3.3.7: Information Elements for MMS Retrieval Acknowledgement EventThe elements of Table 18.3.3.8 will be delivered to the DF2, if available.
The MMS Store report event is generated at the MMS Proxy-Relay, when the MMS Proxy-Relay sends a M-Mmbox-Store.conf (defined in ) to the target.
Table 18.3.3.9: Information Elements for MMS Store EventThe elements of Table 18.3.3.10 will be delivered to the DF2, if available.
When the MMS Upload event is generated and CC interception is also required, an MMS Upload CC event is also generated at the MMS Proxy-Relay.
In this case, the elements of Table 18.3.3.11 will be delivered to the DF3, if available.
The MMS Delete event is generated at the MMS Proxy-Relay when the MMS Proxy-Relay sends a M-Mmbox-Delete.conf (defined in ) to the target.
Table 18.3.3.12: Information Elements for MMS Delete EventThe elements of Table 18.3.3.13 will be delivered to the DF2, if available.
The elements of Table 18.3.3.14 will be delivered to the DF2, if available.
View Confirm event is generated at the MMS Proxy-Relay when the MMS Proxy-Relay sends a M-Mbox-View.conf (defined in ).
In this case, the elements of Table 18.3.3.18 will be delivered to the DF2, if available.
The parameters controlling the LALS output are either delivered per authorization over HI1/X1 interface or pre-configured in the LI-LCS client.
The Target Positioning is used to determine the target's location independently of the services used by the target.
The elements, shown in Table 19.4.3.2-1 will be delivered to the DF2, if available.
This record contains a Correlation Identifier parameter allowing to correlate the Location Reports with the corresponding IRI events.
(i.e. a dedicated EPS Bearer used to carry the media packets).
The present document assumes that BBIFF is closely coupled to S-GW in the VPLMN.
The method used to verify a target identity is dependent on the call direction.
See Annex I for an informative illustration of Non-Local-Id target interception cases.
The Delivery Function 2 delivers the IRI to the LEMF over the HI2 interface based on the national regulations.
the packets from the Media Bearer associated with the IMS Signalling Bearer.
Figure 21.1.1 shows the transfer of intercept related information to the DF2.
If an ICE allows interception of IRI or Content of Communication in clear then this clause does not apply.
The LI event information is sent to the DF2/DF3 is triggered by different PTC session related and non-call related events/reports.
The events trigger the transmission of the information from the PTC server ICE, or HSS to DF2.
Available IEs from this set of elements as shown below can be extended in the HSS, if this is a requirement as a national option.
DF2 can extend available information if this is necessary as a national option e.g. a unique number for each surveillance warrant.
The LI IRI event information is sent to the DF2/DF3 is triggered by different PTC session related and non-call related events/reports.
For each Cell Identity provided in the IRI for location, the CSP has an obligation to provide the specific Cell site information servicing the target.
It is assumed that the source of information for this comes from CSP network engineering and network planning facilities.
The report process is initiated when a DF determines a Cell Identity is contained in an IRI event and when location reporting is authorized.
The intercept configuration for SGSN is shown in figure 1b (clause 4).
The intercept configuration for HSS is shown in figure 12.1.2 (clause 12.1.1).
The intercept configuration for HLR is shown in figure 1c (clause 4).
The intercept configuration for SCEF and IWK-SCF is shown in figure 23.1.1 below.
The duplicated packets with additional information in a header are sent to DF3 for further delivery to the LEA.
identity;- time stamp (optional);- the target location (if available) or the IAs in case of location dependent interception.
When the IoT UE detaches from the EPS, this event is generated.
The following elements are delivered to the DF2 if availableFor each TA/EPS Location Update an update-event with the elements about the new location is generated.
When a PDN connectivity is requested from the IoT UE (TS 23.401 ), a UE requested PDN connectivity event is generated by the MME.
This event will be generated if interception for a target is started and if the target is already attached with non-IP PDN connection.
For each Routing Area Update associated with an IoT UE using NIDD using SCEF this event is generated.
When a PDP context activation is generated for a Non-IP Data Connection this is generated.
At SCEF requested PDP context deactivation a PDP context deactivation-event is generated.
If more than one PDP context is open, for each of them an event record is generated.
The expiration of a configurable timer per intercept (called a Summary Timer).
This event can be reported for a target supporting Non-IP Data Delivery using SCEF.
The following elements will be delivered to the DF2 if available.
This event will be used to report any change of association between IMSI or MSISDN or External Identifier of the target.
This event can be reported for a target supporting Non-IP Data Delivery using SCEF.
The following elements will be delivered to the DF2 if available.
This event can be reported for a target supporting Non-IP Data Delivery using SCEF.
The following elements will be delivered to the DF2 if available.
Annex A (informative):The following figures show the information flows for the invocation of Lawful Interception for various types of calls.
The figures show some of the basic signalling messages of the target calls and the events on the X2 and X3-interfaces.
The bearer points are established in a manner to minimise content loss without delaying the call to the target.
The flows portray both forward and backward bearer establishment and release to the agency.
Call forwarding / call deflectionThe following pictures show the information flows for the interception of forwarded calls.
Information flows will be given for three typical cases of call forwarding.
All other types of call forwarding / call deflection are intercepted similar to one of these.
Figure A.8 shows the interception of call forwarding on busy (network determined).
In this case interception will be performed at the 3G MSC where B resides, where the busy condition is detected and the call is forwarded.
In that case, the release of the stublines is done after the call is transferred and B is no longer involved.
GSN Packet Data servicesThe following figures show the information flows for the invocation of Lawful Interception for Packet Data and typical scenarios.
The figures show some of the basic signalling messages of the target Packet Data communication and the events on the X2 and X3 interfaces.
The dotted lines indicate signalling depending on whether CC and/or IRI information has been requested.
Mobile Station DetachFigure B.4 shows the interception of an Intra Routing Area Update where the mobile (A) is the target for interception.
In case of PDP context not being active less signalling is required.
The 3G GGSN Figure B.8: Interception of a Network initiated PDP Context DeactivationFigures B.9a and B.9b show the interception of a Mobile-terminated SMS.
Figures B.10a and B.10b show the interception of a Mobile-originated SMS.
The figures show some of the basic signalling messages of the target Packet Data communication and the events on the X2 interfaces.
The dotted lines indicate signalling depending on whether IRI information has been requested.
The term "VoLTE" is used to refer to an IMS-based VoIP service when EPS (see TS 23.401 ) happens to be the access network.
In clause 15, the SIP signalling nodes provide signalling information to the CC Interception Triggering Function.
The MRF is deployed in a network configuration with an IP border access controller that serves to hide the presence of the MRF.
The IP access border controller supports IP-level topology hiding for any voice media streams.
The ADF activates interception at the S-CSCF for IRI interception and CC interception using the same target identity (SIP URI, TEL URI or IMEI).
The S-CSCF dynamically triggers CC interception at the MRF for the call.
However, as specified in 7A, the IRI interception can also be done at the P-CSCF (not shown in figure E.4).
However, as specified in 7A, the IRI interception can also be done at the P-CSCF (not shown in figure Z.5).
The IP access border controller supports IP-level topology hiding for any voice media streams.
VoIP lawful interception for a terminating call with CC interception at the MRFIRI interception is done at the S-CSCF.
The ADMF activates interception at the S-CSCF for IRI interception and CC interception using the same target identity (SIP URI or TEL URI).
Since the forwarded-to-party is IMS roaming, the CC interception is done at the TrGW.
IBCF sends the CC intercept trigger to the TrGW.NOTE 5: Void.
Since, the first reliable response is SIP 200 OK, the SDP answer is always given in the SIP 200 OK message.
The call flows show that CC interception is done at the IP-CAN (and it The other possible CC interception options (e.g., IMS-AGW) are not shown.
All the call flows show a summary of SIP messages that are delivered to the LEA (not all SIP messages are shown).
Figure F.3: Target receives an incoming callF.4.0 IntroductionFigure F.4 illustrates the case of an intra-CSP call forwarding unconditional.
Figure F.8A illustrates the case where a roaming target originates a call with local breakout approach is used for roaming.
A Home CSP reports the CC unavailability to the LEMF with "roaming" as the reason for CC unavailability.
The special number is translated into Party_B in the home CSP.
The flow also assumes that the interception is done only in the visited CSP.F.6.2 Interception in Visited CSP - Target Terminating Calls.
Figure F.7.2 and Figure F.7.3 illustrate the case where the Party_A (target) brings the Party_C into the conference.
Figure F.7.6 illustrates the case where Party_C drops out of the conference call.
Figure F.7.8 illustrates the case where Party_A (target) places the conference on hold.
The IRI/CC delivered for D2 and D20 use the Correlation Number 2.
The IRI/CC delivered for the conferencing (i.e., D3) uses the Correlation Number 3.This flow is illustrated in two figures: Figure F.7.2 and Figure F.7.3.
Party_C joins the conference (flow 1 of 2)NOTE: Here, REFER is sent by Party_A outside of any existing dialogues.
At the end of this flow, the Party_A (target) and Party_C are connected via the conference.
Part of the original call between Party_A (target) and Party_C (D2) is released with D20 now representing the call between the Party_C and the conference.
This flow is illustrated in two figures: Figure F.7.4 and Figure F.7.5.
Party_B joins the conference (flow 1 of 2)NOTE: Here, REFER is sent by Party_A outside of any existing dialogues.
At the end of this flow, the Party_A (target), Party_B and Party_C are connected via the conference.
Part of the original call between Party_A (target) and Party_B (D1) is released with D10 now representing the call between the Party_B and the conference.
D3 represents the dialogue of the call between the Party_A (target) and the conference.
At the end of this flow, Party_A (target) and Party_B are connected through the conference.
D3 represents the dialogue of the call between the Party_A (target) and the conference.
At the end of this flow, Party_A (target) and Party_B are connected directly (without the conference).
D3 represents the dialogue of the call between the Party_A (target) and the conference.
At the end of this flow, Party_A (targt), Party_B and Party_C are communicating via the conference.
For case 3, the codec information would be aligned irrespective of who sends that information to the DF2.
Therefore, for Case 1 and Case 2, the DF2 has to provide the SDES keys to the DF3 (see clause 7A.1.A) to perform the decryption.
The S-CSCF does not receive the SDES keys within the SDP of SIP messages.
encryptionThe Figure G.4-1 shows three different cases of CC interception points.
DF2 has to use the SDES keys received from the P-CSCF for its handling (i.e., sending it to DF3) to perform the decryption.
G.5 CC Interception of transcoded media at the TrGWThe Figure G.5-1 shows two different cases of CC interception points.
The ADMF provides the network and/ or LI LCS Client to collect location IRI against a target with a specified periodicity.
The target For an Authorization for location reporting, all other IRI's not associated with Location is filtered.
The target For an Authorization for Immediate location, all other IRI's not associated with Location is filtered.
Interception of Targets with Non-Local IDsThis annex provides some informative illustrations on the interception of targets with Non-Local IDs.
The Figure I.1 shows an example where the interception is done at the S-CSCF.
The Figure I.2 shows an example where the interception is done at the P-CSCF in a roaming case with LBO as the roaming architecture.
The Figure I.3 shows an example where the interception is done at the IBCF or MGCF in a non-roaming case.
The Figure I.4 shows an example where the interception is done at the S-CSCF.
The Figure I.5 shows an example where the interception is done at the P-CSCF in a roaming case with LBO as the roaming architecture.
In the call, the P-Asserted-Id, From headers point to Party-A. There are no History-Info or Diversion headers in the examples.
Since a match is found for P-Asserted-Id and From header values, P-CSCF would perform the interception.
The Figure I.6 shows an example where the interception is done at the IBCF or MGCF in a non-roaming case.
In the call, the P-Asserted-Id and From headers point to Party-A. There are no History-Info or Diversion headers in the example.
The LI architecture diagram shown in figure 1j is expanded in figure J.1 that shows an overview of S8HR roaming architecture as well.
S-GW/BBIFF also notifies the LMISF, based on the GTP-C event, whenever the IMS Media Bearer is created, modified, or deleted.4.
S-GW/BBIFF delivers the packets of those IMS Signalling Bearers to the LMISF.
As such, S-GW/BBIFF has no idea whether the packets of an IMS Signalling Bearer are related to a target or not.
The DF2 will generate and deliver the IRI to the LEMF as per TS 33.108 .7.
The LMISF examines the SIP message to verify whether the SIP headers pointing to the calling party (e.g. P-preferred-Identity, From) is a target.
The LMISF delivers the media packets as the CC along with the correlation number D1 to the DF3.
When S-GW/BBIFF is asked to deliver the packets from the IMS Signalling Bearers to LMISF, it delivers everything above the GTP-U layer.
S-GW/BBIFF does not look into the IMS packets above the GTP-U layer.
Similarly, when the S-GW/BBIFF is asked to deliver the packets from the Media Bearer to the LMISF, it delivers everything above the GTP-U layer.
It does not look into the Media packets above the GTP-U layer.
The CC delivered using the IP-based delivery interface should carry the following information at the minimum:- Payload description: to decode the RTP streams.