the first digit:2 presented to TSG for approval;y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
IETF RFC : "Personal Assertion Token (PASSporT) Extension for Diverted Calls".
As defined in 3 , represents PLMN with architecture enhancements for control and user plane separation of EPC nodes.
IRI event: The network procedure or event that created an xIRI in the Point Of Interception.
User Plane (UP) Entity: The network elements or network functions responsible for handling the User Plane Functions.
The LICF and LAF communicate via the internal LI_LAFC interface, the details of which are outside the scope of the present document.
The ADMF contains the issuing Certificate Authority (CA) for all LI components (POIs, MDFs etc.).
The NRF/SIRF are not involved in this step of NF/POI or MDF instantiation.
Further details of the LARF are defined in clause 7.3.5.A high-level interception architecture diagram showing key point-to-point LI interfaces is shown in figure 5.4.1-1 below.
SIRF uses this interface to provide the system information to the LIPF.
LI_X1 interfaces are also used to manage and provision MDFs with the necessary information to deliver those communications in the correct format to LEMFs.
The LI_X2 interfaces are used to pass xIRI from IRI-POIs to the MDF2.- Target identifier.- Correlation information.
The CC interception rules allow the CC-POI to detect the target communication information to be intercepted.
LI_HI3 is used to send CC from the MDF3 to the LEMF.
LI_HI4 is used by the MDF2 and MDF3 to report to the LEMF that the MDF2/3 have been provisioned as expected.
LI_X2_LA interfaces are used to pass the xIRI containing location acquisition outcomes between the LARF to the MDF2.
The LI_X0 interface is used to manage LI functions after instantiation such they are made ready for LI use and subsequent provisioning over LI_X1.
Figure 5.6-2 shows an example of what the procedures described in this clause look like when instantiating a new NF and associated LI functions.
The network functions are depicted in grey, while the LI elements are depicted in blue.
Where SUPI privacy is implemented by both the UDM and UE, the SUPI is not sent in the clear over the RAN.
Therefore, AMF has to rely on the UDM to provide the SUPI as part of the registration procedure as defined in.
The AMF IRI-POI - Registration.- Location update.- Start of interception with already registered UE.- Positioning info transfer.- Trace.- Service accept.
Instead, the capability is invoked whenever any LCS operation (including LALS) is performed on the target.
The trace xIRI is generated when the IRI-POI in the AMF detects that a trace session has been initiated for a target.
NOTE 2: When LI_T3 is used, the LI_X1 between LIPF and CC-POI present in the UPF is used to monitor the user plane data.
(i.e. that requires access to the user plane packets), the present document supports two implementation approaches as described in clause 7.12.2.
When a UE request for a mid-session upgrade to MA PDU session is received at the SMF.- When the entire PDU session is released.
In 5G packet core network, the UDM provides the unified data management for UE.
In the 5GC network, the SMSF provides functionalities to support the SMS over NAS.
For virtualised 4G implementations from In the EPC network, the MME handles the mobility management and connection management as specified in.
Instead, the capability is invoked whenever any LCS operation (including LALS) is performed on the target.
The trace xIRI is generated when the IRI-POI in the MME detects that a trace session has been initiated for a target.
The LI architecture for non-CUPS EPS is defined in clause 6.3.3.1.2.
The IRI-TF.- The CC-POI.Figure 6.3-2 shows the LI architecture for non-CUPS SGW/PGW based interception.
The IRI-POI present in the SGW/PGW detects the target UE's bearer activation, modification and deactivation, generates and delivers the xIRI to the MDF2 over LI_X2.
The MDF3 delivers the CC to the LEMF over LI_HI3.The IRI-POI present in the ePDG - Target identity.- Correlation information.- Bearer related information.
LI capabilities for 3G / UMTS for this release are specified in.
LI requirements for VoNR based on IMS are defined in clause 7.4 of the present document.
Figure 7.2-1: LI architecture for LI at UDMThe LIPF present in the ADMF provisions IRI-POI (over LI_X1) present in the UDM and MDF2.
Where SUPI privacy is implemented by both the UDM and UE, the SUPI is not sent in the clear over the RAN.
Therefore, the UDM - Serving system.- Cancel location.- Location information result.- UE authentication response.- ProSe target identifier deconcealment.
A serving system xIRI is generated when the IRI-POI present in the UDM detects the target UE registration or re-registration related notifications.
In addition, a subscriber record change xIRI is generated when the associated GPSI or, SUPI, or PEI for the target is de-provisioned.
For all UE locations obtained, generated or reported to the ICF, the IEF AMF) and provide this to the ICF along with the location information.
This clause specifies requirements relating to location reporting that is obtained as part of target user usage of network services.
Only location reporting that is available as part of the network service being used by the target user is specified in this clause.
Target positioning determines the target's location independently of the services used by the target.
While IRI generated by the event that also triggers the LALS (seeR6.3 – 270).
Cell radio related information includes specific information related to the reported cell.
The use of the location acquisition procedure Detectability issues It is up to the LEA to decide if location acquisition is to be used.
The two delivery options The ADMF Upon determining the location, the LARF will forward the location information to the LAF via the LI_XLA interface.
The retrieved information is further provided in the response to the LEA over the interface LI_HILA.
The retrieved information is further provided by the MDF2 to the LEMF via the LI_HI2 interface.
The LICF present in the ADMF receives the warrant from an LEA, derives the intercept information from the warrant and provides it to the LIPF.
The MDF2 generates IRI messages from the received xIRI and delivers those IRI messages to the LEMF over LI_HI2 interface.
The MDF3 generates the CC from the received xCC and delivers that CC to the LEMF over LI_HI3 interface.
The details of correlation between the xIRI and the xCC when IRI-POI and CC-TF are not co-located is not defined in the present document.
The start of interception with an established IMS session xIRI is generated when an interception is activated on an established IMS session.
To support the possibility of generating such an xIRI, the IMS Signalling Function - Target identity.- Time stamp.
Conf-AS stands for conference AS (see NOTE 2 in clause 7.4.4.1).
The present document specifies two options for implementing the LI functions for voice services with S8HR as the roaming architecture:2.
The LMISF The term N9HR is used to denote the home-routed roaming architecture for Vo5GS UEs.
The packet data connection representing the IMS media channel referenced in clause 7.4.7.4.11 is referred to as PDU session with IMS media related QoS flow.
The UE location information and the PDU session ID is included in such notifications.
The CC-POI and IRI-POI functions are provided by the embedded functions LMISF-CC and LMISF-IRI within the LMISF.
Further details on the use of SIP parameters in identifying a target are described in.
If an intercepted IMS session is setup, examine to see whether a CC interception for that IMS session is required.
The terms identifier and identity are used interchangeably in clause 7.7.
If NEF is used, the NIDD traffic is forwarded by NEF to the AF.
Figure 7.8-3 shows the architecture for delivery of NIDD using NEF in roaming situation.
LI for NIDD using NEF in the HPLMN is described in clause 7.9.2.1.This clause describes the LI for NIDD using NEF in the VPLMN.
The duplicated packets with additional information in a header are sent to MDF3 via LI_X3 for further delivery to the LEMF via LI_HI3.
The NEF plays the role of anchor point for that PDU session.
MSISDN-less means that the GPSI of the UE is not an MSISDN but an External Identifier which form is username@realm.
MSISDN-less MO-SMS service allows MSISDN-less UE to send small data to an AF using SMS-MO.
The PDN GW shares a SGi tunnel with the SCS/AS for the NIDD traffic exchange.
If SCEF is used, the NIDD traffic is forwarded by SCEF to the SCS/AS.NIDD applies to non-roaming and roaming with home-routed roaming architecture.
Figure 7.10-1 presents the architecture for delivery of NIDD using SCEF in non-roaming scenario.
The PDN connection is established between UE and SCEF via MME.
After successful authorization, SCEF forwards the Device trigger request with the IMSI of the UE to the corresponding SM-SC to be delivered to that UE.
MSISDN-less means that the UE has a subscription without MSISDN but an External Identifier which form is username@realm.
MSISDN-less MO-SMS service allows MSISDN-less UE to send small data to an SCS/AS using SMS-MO.
In approach 2, xCC is generated by the CC-POI in the UP Entity as if the warrant involves the interception of communication contents.
The CC-POI generates the xCC and sends it to the MDF3.
The MDF3 (based on the provisioned intercept information) does not generate and deliver the CC to the LEMF.
rules.- Correlation information.7.13.1 Background- Capability discovery for enhanced contacts information.- Pager mode.- Chat:- Group chat.- Upload and download of files through HTTP Content Server.
In general, the LI functions involved in the interception of RCS events are located either in the IMS core or in RCS specific network functions.
The LI architecture for the File Transfer Localisation Function is depicted in figure 7.13.2-1.
The trigger sent from the TF to the POI includes the following information:- Target identity.- MDF2 (for xIRI) or MDF3 (for xCC) address.
Group chat modification.- Start of interception with already registered UE.- Unsuccessful procedure.- File upload.- Unsuccessful procedure.
The registration xIRI is generated when the IRI-POI present in an RCS Server detects that a target UE has been registered for RCS services.
This xIRI is also generated when a target UE gets information about the capabilities and state of another RCS user.
The session modification xIRI is generated when the IRI-POI present in an RCS Server detects that an RCS session has been modified for a target.
The group chat release xIRI is generated when the IRI-POI present in an RCS Server detects that the target leaves a group chat session.
The deregistration xIRI is generated when the IRI-POI present in the IMS Signalling Function detects that a target UE has been deregistered from RCS services.
Annex E provides detailed description of STIR SHAKEN and RCD/eCNAM procedures.
For emergency sessions, Egress IBCF interacts with the AS for signing.
This interaction occurs when the Telephony AS or egress IBCF has received a SIP INVITE request from a UE.
The KSF reuses the basic network layer authentication service (native 5G AKA or EAP-AKA’) to obtain a derived anchor key.
From this anchor key, the KSF can derive one or more service specific keys, which can be provided to various application functions.
Such an application function provides, besides the application specific functionality, a Security Termination Function (STF) endpoint for the security with the UE.
See clause 7.15.3.1.1 for an example of how these terms are mapped to functions defined by the AKMA framework.
For a third example of applicability of LI at the KSF, refer to NOTE 3 below.
The Anchor Key Identifier (A-KID) is used to identify the key KAKMA.
ArchitectureThe LIPF also provisions IRI-TF and CC-TF present in the AAnF.
AFs making use of AKMA for security purposes provide various services/applications toward subscribers.
SUPI.AFs making use of AKMA can use either SUPI or some other form of identifier as basis for providing their services.
This includes EAS discovery by the UE and application context transfer between EASs for service continuity.
Figure 6.2-1 in clause 6.2 ofshows the general architecture for enabling edge applications using a service-based representation.
Streaming points to the fact that the media is predominantly sent only in a single direction and consumed as it is received.
Additionally, the media content If media content being streamed is already produced, it is referred to as on-demand streaming.
A 5GMS AF that is edge-enabled A UE EES provides the IRI-POI function as specified in clause 7.16.
NWDAF provides a set of data analytics in the form of statistics and predictions to authorized NF consumers.
The NWDAF in the visited network is also referred to as V-RE-NWDAF and the NWDAF in the HPLMN is also referred to as H-RE-NWDAF.
In addition, when the image is no longer required by a live running Network Function, the image is erased from the cache.
In figures 8.5-2 and 8.5-3 the POI will be depicted straddling the edge of the NF to simultaneously indicate both approaches.
The MDF3 address to CC-POI present in UPF + PGW-U is provided by the CC-TF present in the SMF over LI_T3 reference point.
NOTE 1:notes that there can another UPF between the NG-RAN and PGW-U + UPF.
The MDF3 address to CC-POI present in UPF-1 is provided by the CC-TF present in the SMF over LI_T3 reference point.
In this example, there is a branching UPF (UPF-B), an anchor UPF for the DN (UPF-A1) and another anchor UPF for the same DN (UPF-A2).
The second approach (i.e. CC interception at the anchor UPFs) mentioned in A.3.1 is used to provide the CC interception.
The UPF-A1 delivers the xCC generated from the user plane packets that flow from UE to the DN via UPF-A1 to the MDF3.
The MDF3 address in the CC-POIs present in UPF-1 and UPF-2 are provided by the CC-TF present in the SMF over LI_T3 reference point.
A.4.2 Topology viewThe 5G core system is shown in the following figures the service-based representation (as shown in) with the use of point-to-point LI system.
The ADMF, via LI_X1, deactivates/deprovisions the required LI Functions, reference -1 .
The message is carried in a SIP MESSAGE request.- 1-to-1 chat: This service allows establishing a SIP session between two participants.
A target UE uploads a file to the HTTP Content Server.
The figure 7.13.2-1 without the CC-POI in the RCS Server provides the architecture for LI for capability discovery.
When the SIP OPTIONS request is used, user A includes user A’s RCS capabilities and the IMPU of user B.
User B is registered to IMS, but not with an RCS client.
Only the non-RCS communication services (e.g. voice calls, SMS, MMS, etc.) are indicated as available.- 404 Not Found or 604 Does Not Exist Anywhere.
User B is not considered as an IMS user nor an RCS user.
If changes are required in the published capabilities (e.g., due to RAT change), a new PUBLISH request is sent.
When the client/device is switched off, the published capabilities are removed from the presence server before deregistering from IMS by sending another PUBLISH request.
The figure 7.13.2-1 provides the architecture for LI for pager mode standalone messaging.
Each MSRP SEND request containing a user message contains a request to receive a delivery notification and possibly a display notification.
The client therefore always includes the header field for delivery notification when sending a message.
Figure E.2.1-1 below depicts the SHAKEN reference architecture as specified in 3when using end-to-end SIP signalling.
The IBCF or Telephony AS in the terminating service provider’s network invokes the AS for verification which verifies the digital signature of the call.
The AS includes a VERSTAT parameter in the P-Asserted-Identity or From header of the SIP INVITE request, with possible values of TN-Validation-Passed, TN-Validation-Failed or No-TN-Validation.
All other SHAKEN steps for authentication, use of certificates and verification remain the same.
Service providers originating, transiting, or terminating calls using only SIP signalling do not use Out-of-Band SHAKEN.
Intermediate providers transiting calls with TDM signalling only do not use Out-of-Band SHAKEN.
An upstream provider would have already published PASSporTs for those calls to a CPS.
There is no need for an all-TDM intermediate provider to do anything as shown in figure E.3.4-2.
The SIP headers such as "History-Info", "Diversion" and "To" do not provide any cryptographic assurance of secure redirection.
It indicates a previous destination for a session during its routing process.
The following procedure explains STIR/SHAKEN operation when SIP signalling is carried end-to-end between an originating and terminating service provider as illustrated in figure E.4.1-1.
The AS for signing returns the signing response (HTTP 200 OK) containing the Identity header to telephony AS.
The Telephony AS signs the SIP INVITE request with the SIP Identity header.
The Telephony AS also obtains Identity header for each diverting identity as defined in RFC .4.
The Telephony AS passes the SIP INVITE request back to the S-CSCF.6.
The TN-Validation-Failed result is associated with a failure response code to identify the specific error.
The terminating S-CSCF passes the SIP INVITE request to the terminating Telephony AS.14.