and A5/2 (GSMA deprecated in ), no inherent integrity protection over the air, and authentication and ciphering over the air are optional to implement.
SolutionsThis solution addresses the security requirement in key issue#1 on securely notification to UE when the GERAN or UTRAN networks are decommissioned.
This solution addresses the security requirement in key issue#1 with the impact only on UE and AMF.This solution addresses the security requirement of key issue#1.
This solution proposes the following:In case of LTE, similar information can be included along with successful response to attach message.
After NAS registration is complete, as part of NAS registration accept, the serving network informs the UE about the decommissioned RATs.
If provided by the HPLMN, the list can contain all the PLMNs that have roaming agreement with the HPLMN and have decommissioned 2G/3G.
The UE on receiving network access restriction information determines not to select decommissioned UTRAN and GERAN.
If the operator has decommissioned GERAN and UTRAN networks, only 4G and/or 5G networks are listed.
Upon receiving the message, UE does not connect to the network whose RAT types are not in the allowlist of the networks.
Impacts on the AMF:The UE does not connect to the networks that are not in the allowlist of the networks.
This solution addresses key issue #1: "Bidding down attacks from LTE/NR to decommissioned GERAN/UTRAN".
The solution introduces a new IE in the registration accept message to signal to the UE the list of decommissioned systems.
parameterThe UE initiates the procedure by sending a Registration Request message.
The solution addresses the requirement of key issue #1: "Bidding down attacks from LTE/NR to decommissioned GERAN/UTRAN".
The solution does not provide a mechanism to address backward compatibility issues with UEs not supporting this additional NAS IE.
The solution has impact on UE and AMF and does not solve the problem for legacy devices.
This new parameter which is referred to as the List of DecommissionedIn this context, the LDAT includes GERAN or UTRAN or both.
The UE stores the LDAT information and removes any previously received one (if any).
The solution requires that UPU is deployed which is not necessarily the case on the network side.
The solution addresses the key issue #1 “Bidding down attacks from LTE/NR to decommissioned GERAN/UTRAN”.
The indication is bound to the operator's PLMN ID and indicates to the UE that GERAN and UTRAN access technologies have been decommissioned.
The UE excludes the combination HPLMN and restricted RAT types of the HPLMN for any PLMN/Cell (re)selection procedures.
The AMF/MME learns about UE's location based on UE's location update procedure.
The AMF/MME uses NGAP/S1AP protocol signaling to pass this information to RAN nodes.
The solution does not solve security requirement of KI#1 for legacy UE that only can access GERAN/UTRAN.
Also, legacy UE would not have camped on ng-eNB/eNB to begin with.
The solution ties the UE's location and the available RAT absence absent/presence in an 'allowed list'.
Thus, the solution prohibits inter RAT handover to GERAN/UTRAN where PLMN has removed GERAN/UTRAN, while still allowing inter RAT handover elsewhere.
In this mode, UE does not have RRC connection with the radio network and does not have active NAS signalling with CN.
Therefore, the network uses paging to reach out to UEs in a location where GERAN/UTRAN is removed.
Once the UE is informed to only use allowed RATs, UE subsequently only accesses allowed RATs.
It mitigates risk of UE selecting decommissioned GERAN/UTRAN since the allowed RAT will not include GERAN/UTRAN.
Specific internal processes that lead to UE's subsequent action of only accessing allowed RAT is left to implementation at the UE by OEM.
removalThe solution informs UEs in CM IDLE mode and CONNECTED mode by network trigger.
The solution relies only on information stored in the UE: configuration information stored on the USIM and location information known by the UE.
The solution does not rely on information sent by a base station, as this base station could potentially be a false base station.
To define one or several access technologies forbidden when the location of the UE cannot be determined by the UE.
The UE checks that the proposed access technology to establish the communication is not forbidden by the list stored in the USIM.
EvaluationThe solution relies only on information stored in the UE: configuration information stored on the USIM and location information determined by the UE.
The solution puts burden on the operator to update the list.
Overall summarySolutions #1 to #7 propose to enhance the registration/TAU procedure in order to convey such information.
In both cases a new IE is needed to convey that information to the UE.
This provides more than a sufficient time window for attackers to mount their schemes by FBS using decommissioned radio technology.
A.2 ApproachesOperators can use their PR channels to highlight events such as the decommissioning of UTRAN or GERAN networks.