Editors Note This clause contains some background information for the study.
enforcementThe following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of the present document.905 Vocabulary forRFC , The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework.
the purposes of the present document, the following symbols applyFor the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 905and the following apply.
API security risks5 Security Analysis and Considerations This clause contains security analysis and considerations as applicable for each of the work tasks.
DescriptionOne or more NF are sending more requests than their historic normal amount.
Note that the attribution of service requests is only possible when the service consumer is authenticated.
The specific data for collection will be determined in the conclusions5.1.4.1 DescriptionPerforming API calls.
Analysis of security events lacks trustworthy information regarding the potential source of adversity.
NOTE Some of the data identified above might not be available to the SBA layer.
There are four distinct communication models that are defined in 3 Annex Ethat NFs and NF services can use to interact which each other.
Editors Note It is FFS whether a NF can determine that something abnormal is happening using only its own collected information.
NOTE Some of the data identified above OM system.5G SBA makes extensive use of APIs for communication between NFs.
API security risks in SBA pose signficant threats to network integrity, NF availability, and user data privacy.
API calls out of sequence e.g. step 3 before step 2 or 1 and 3.
Exposure of API related information to the Operator Security Function OSF will allow for detection of attacks and potential mitigation of compromised NFs.
Editors Note This clause covers the details on the potential threatattack traces on the SBA layer, along with the impacts.
Editors Note This clause describes the necessary actions on such data exposure, notification, logging, etc. and an analysis of the security implications if any.
solutions addressing this key issue can aim to identify relevant factors for data collection that could potentially enhance security monitoring and mitigate against insider attacks.
Editors Note Architectural aspects of the 5GS need to be confirmed by SA WG2.
The 5GS Editors Note This clause contains the proposed solutions addressing the identified key issues.
The solution address key issue1.The steps shown in Figure 7.1.21 is described below.
Malformed SBI message eventAbnormal SBI call flow eventTable 7.Y.21 Event data to be collected for various security events3a.
The NWDAF based on operator policy has implicit subscription to the Operators Security function to provide the security event data.
The NWDAF sends the collected data specific to the security events to the Operator Security function.3b.
The NWDAF receives the response with acknowledgement from the Operator Security function.
The NFs in SBA can offer the services to expose the collected security events data identified with suitable event IDs as listed below to enable.
Security Data Repository Function SDRF which is responsible for storage of the SDCF data and is configured by the operator.
The conclusion phase could determine if some of the functions defined in steps 13 can be combined.
SDCF receives analytic payload from an NF SDPI e.g. NF1, Nf2, Nf3.
SDCF sends the analytic payload it has received from e.g. Nf1, Nf2, NF3 to SDRF.
Editors note The impact to both standardization and products of sending the same data over multiple interfaces needs to be evaluated.
Editors Note It is FFS if any specific policies are required for this storage and retrieval.
Data collection and coordination function DCCF is already defined and can be reused here.
This solution proposes collection of one or more of specific security counters to assess if any NF is compromised in the SBA layer.
Audit logs like defined inCounters related to authentication failures for obtaining access to NFs.
For example, DCCF can subscribe to different NFs for obtaining security events related to number of unauthorizedunauthenticated attempts to access the respective NFs.
X clause 4.2.3.6 details some security event logs in accordance with industry best practice.
Number of unauthorized attempts andor authentication failures to access NFs in an observation period.
DescriptionThe security data can be exposed so that any exploitation of such risks can be detected by security evaluation and monitoring systems.
API9 Improper Inventory Management Threat agents can get unauthorized access through old API versions or endpoints left running unpatched and using weaker security requirements.
Attackers can gain access to sensitive data, or even take over the server.
Sometimes different API versionsdeployments are connected to the same database with real data.
Reverse engineering attacks using APIs Attackers can attempt to call APIs in a reverse order than the good scenario.
Such alarm can help indicate a possible risk like API8 Security Misconfiguration Such alarms can help detect a potential bruteforce attack.