The present document uses the term "false base station" in general to denote wireless devices that impersonate genuine base stations.
Today, the capabilities of false base stations vary depending upon whether the mobile network is GPRS, UMTS, LTE, or 5G.
The false base station could behave as a man-in-the-middle and catch the UECapabilityInformation over-the-air.
Currently, resume cause field in the RRCResumeRequest message is not protected by the ResumeMAC-I token.
This means that the integrity of the resume cause field in the RRCResumeRequest message is not provided nor integrity protected.
This attack could reduce the type of service offered by the network to the UE.
but the network will immediately send the UE back to INACTIVE while the UE is waiting to establish an emergency call, for example.
These broadcasted messages are intended for all UEs which are camping on a cell.
In the idle mode or inactive mode, the UE monitors the SI of cells and choose a suitable cell to camp on.
The UE typically acquires the SI from the cell and performs initial access to transition to connected state to obtain services.
UE in IDLE mode performs PLMN selection, monitor paging, performs cell selection, cell re-selection, and applies access control before making an access attempt.
There are some distinct challenges when studying the broadcast messages protection as below:b) Time synchronization.
Once a determination is reached that a particular base station is false, the genuine network can take actions to isolate such false base stations.
The genuine network can help UEs with information to avoid connecting to the false base stations.
As UEs are not able to validate the system information sent by gNBs, UEs cannot distinguish whether the gNB is genuine or not.
A MitM false base station It reject or drop service request, not pass on paging messages etc.
The gNB and the UE keep the current AS key KRRCint.
On receiving the RRC Reject message from the gNB, the UE calculates the rejectMAC-I in the same way as the gNB did in step 2.
If the rejectMAC-I check is successful, then the UE follows rest of the procedure as specified in .
If the rejectMAC-I check fails, then the UE ignores the received RRC Reject message.
UE moves to RRC Idle, deletes the 5G AS context and I-RNTI, and indicates to upper layer with appropriate cause value for NAS recovery.
When UE in the RRC-INACTIVE state, there are 2 kinds of situation, gNB has the security context, and gNB does not have the security context.
It means the followings:NOTE : Evaluation of the security vulnerabilities for allowing the network to accept unprotected UECapabilitiesInformation is not addressed in the present document.
Additionally,provides support for reporting of Cell Group Info (CGI_info) which contains information broadcasted in MIB and SIB1.
NOTE 4: The network can set the requesting frequency for CGI info, similar to the ANR frequency configuration.
It is suggested to reuse the algorithm of SHA256 to calculate the hashes of MIB/SIBs.
If verification fails, e.g., the hashes do not match, the network This solution addresses FBS network detection of Key issue #3.
It enhances FBS detection by enriching the measurement reports from UEs.2.
The reporting RSRP/RSRQ/RSSI/beam level information of SSB or CSI-RS is supported since Rel-15.
And reporting connection establishment failure and radio link failure is supported in Rel-16.
If other information is required to be reported, additional work will be required.
This solution does not address DoS launched against UEs by other means (e.g., jamming).
In the registration request procedure, the victim UE sends a registration request message to the false base station FBS.4.
The gNB sends the registration request message to the AMF with the user's location information reported by the gNB (indicated by "Location Info-gNB").6.
NOTE 1: In case of the UE is already registered, the Location Info-UE 12.
The user's actual location information In addition, based on the eLCS procedure, the UE is allowed to submit its location to the core network.
The privacy issue would be solved based on the privacy setting, which is agreed by the UE.
Therefore, the location information of the UE cannot be tampered by the false base station.
Note: Evaluation on privacy aspects is not addressed in the present document.
This solution addresses the security requirement in key issue #3 for preventing UE from connecting to false base station.
Step 8: The UE sends MSG1 to the camped cell in clear.
Step 9: The false cell responds with MSG2 in plaintext, instructing the UE to send the next uplink message using the dedicated UL allocation resource.
Step 10: The UE sends the HO confirm message using the dedicated UL allocation resource.
For the UE, the false cell does not have the UE security context, the UE would find RLF at later time.
Step 6: The source gNB (A) sends a measurement task including the CSI-RS information to the UE while being protected with RRC security context.
Step 7: The UE executes a second measurement of the dedicated CSI-RS signal indicated in the measurement task.
The solution is turned on dynamically by a source gNB.The solution addresses Key Issue #3 to avoid the UE connecting to FBS during Handover procedure.
The solution requires new signalling overhead before Handover, but it can be configured on-demand.
DoS attack on UE: attempts to hinder the UEs' access to the network.
This solution does not verify the authenticity of the cell during initial registration procedure.
NOTE 2: It is not addressed in the present document whether the K-SIG-Priv of all gNBs within a TA are same or different.
Mechanisms to reduce the overhead are detailed in the clause 6.7.2.3 of the present document.
The UE and the VPLMN require a secure negotiation mechanism so that both have a common understanding of where and which SI messages are protected.
This solution proposes the NAS layer based negotiation as shown in the Figure 6.7.2.4-1.
UE cannot verify the SIB message during the initial registration procedure.
The key provision procedure is leveraging the legacy NAS signalling and no extra signalling is needed.
Given the fact that replay attack cannot being 100 % eliminated, the method given by this solution helps to mitigate the reply attack.
Based on threshold of detected cell's signal, UE determines whether the cell is authentic or not, to camp on it.
The UE checks that the timestamp is within an acceptable time-window before it verifies the signature to prevent replay attacks.
The generated DS together with some least significant bits of Time Counter is added to the system information before transmitting over the air.
In order to verify the authenticity of the cell, the NR act as "signer" (according to the definitions in RFC ).
The signature length depends upon the signature scheme and its domain parameters.
The solution here particularly focusses on the UEs in active state.
The active UEs which does handover from real base station to false base station will fail, and the UE will select a new target cell.
The serving base station can make the determination that the reported Cell ID does not belong to its PLMN network.
Note: It is not addressed in the present document how a serving base station resolves duplicate Cell IDs as genuine vs false.
The network integrity protects broadcast messages, e.g. MIB, SIBs, warning messages, etc., together with the DL ARFCN.
The serving network provisions protection area (PA) information to the ME, which includes keys that the gNBs uses to integrity protect the radio signaling.
The keys in the PA information are encrypted by the CKp and can only be decrypted by the USIM.
The ME sends the protection area information and the radio signaling to the USIM for cell authenticity.
The UE sends a Registration Request message to the serving network.
If the UE decides to change protection key (CKp), the UE 5.
If the NONCE and the CKp are received, the AMF/SEAF sends a Registration Accept (NONCE) message to the UE.8.
The USIM returns an indication to the ME after CKp has been generated.
Each SRKG is included in one or more PAs, and each of those PAs includes the full SRKG.
The following figure illustrates the relationship between SRKG and protection area (PA).
The expiry time is used to avoid a false base station, who cracks a KBS of a gNB, to cheat the UE after key expiration.
The ME received the message including a <bsGKI, bsGNI> and a MAC-I via a cell.
The ME checks whether the bsGKI exists in the protection area information.
If the check fails, then the ME marks the cell as suspect cell in cache.
If verification fails, the UE marks the cell as false cell in cache, otherwise remove the cell from the cache.
The ME tries to camp on a cell and decides to send message1 to the cell.
If message1 is not Preamble, it generates a 32-bit random string NONCE.
The NONCE is used as replay protection parameter for the successive downlink message.3.
The ME sends the message1 to the cell, which includes the NONCE if the message1 is not Preamble, the message1 6.
The gNB sends the message2 along with the MAC-I to the UE via the cell.
If the message1 is Preamble, then the 32-bit NONCE = (2-bit padding || 6-bit RA-RNTI || 2-bit padding || 6-bit RAPID || 16-bit Temporary C-RNTI).
In order to provide backward compatibility, short MAC-I can be appended sequentially after the payload.
The UE has an eSK and an ePK, and the gNB has a SKgNB and a PKgNB.
The gNB can provision the PKgNB in the early stage, so the UE can get the PKgNB of gNB.
If the UE is only pre-provisioned PKgNB of home network, then the UE can achieve anti-FBS in home PLMN.
The vendor can provision a list of Root certificate into the UEs, the length of the list depends on the capability of the UE.
It is not addressed in the present document how the MNOs control the CA provisioning and revocation.
UE needs to be pre-provisioned of a list of root certificate.
the UE does not own a corresponding Root Cert for verification, then the UE UE may have 2 choices:Key issue 1&2 are mitigated.
All broadcast message before security activation can be signed using this solution.
It is not addressed in the present document where the PKG is located in the network.
After UE registered and perform authentication with the network, UE applies for the PKPKG from the trusted Serving network in the NAS SMC complete message.
If the UE is provisioned the valid PKPKG and the verification succeeds, the UE treats the information as genuine.
If the UE is provisioned the valid PKPKG and the verification fails, the UE drops this message.
NOTE 1: How the MitM attack is addressed is not addressed in the present document .
If the first one is chosen, the UE needs to be provisioned into PKPKG, then his solution works for VPLMN/roaming cases.
If the UE is only pre-provisioned of PKPKG of the HPLMN, then the UE can achieve anti-FBS in HPLMN.
If the ResumeMAC-I passes validation with any of the resumecause values, the old gNB respond with RETRIEVE UE CONTEXT RESPONSE as in the successful case.
IntroductionWhen gNB receives the hash value and it verifies the correctness of the hash.
If the verification fails, the gNB indicates the mismatch and in addition provides the MIB/SIBs, to the UE.1.
(optional) AMF sends a NAS Security Mode Command to the UE optionally with indication of support for system information protection.
If the UE receives the indication of support for system information protection, the UE stores it as part of the security context.4.
(optional) UE sends a NAS Security Mode Complete to the AMF.6.
UE sends a Security Mode Complete with the hash of the MIB/SIBs.
Also, the UE indicates the list of SIBs that were used to calculate the hash value.
If the verification is successful, the gNB further verifies the hash of the MIB/SIBs.
This solution fulfils the potential security requirement of the KI #2 when the UE is in the RRC-Connected state.
How to protect the MIB/SIBs when AS security is not supported is not addressed in the present document.
Indications in the AMF: - -The AMF receives a Service Request from a completely unknown UE with a wrong GUTI pointing to a different PLMN.
The AMF also does not have the security context used by the UE and will reject the NAS message.
The indications could be combined together in the following procedure: Figure 6.15.2-1: Procedure to detect Authentication Relay Attack in different PLMNs2.
According to normal procedure the AMF sends a Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Request message in step 5 to the AUSF of the HPLMN of the Victim UE.
If implemented in the HPLMN, then the HPLMN could already deny the authentication request to the AMF with a location mismatch cause value.
The AUSF provides the challenge to the AMF (SEAF), e.g. the AKA' challenge or the 5G Serving Environment Authentication Vector (RAND, AUTN, HXRES*).
The AUSF will perform normal primary Authentication procedure (e.g. 5G AKA or EAP-AKA') of the UE 6.
Upon reception of the Security Mode Command message, the UE knows that the Authentication procedure was successful.
The UE sends a Security Mode Reject message including an appropriate error cause value, i.e. integrity check failure.
The AMF rejects the registration and This message In parallel the UE performs cell reselection and starts initial registration.
This solution addresses the key issues #1 "Security of unprotected unicast messages" for RRC Reject message protection.
A newer network uses the newer version of ResumeMAC-I/shortResumeMAC-I only if supported by the UE.
Once the source gNB (A) receives the CSI-RS information in the Conditional Handover request ACK, the source gNB attaches threshold of HO.
The source gNB (A) sends CHO Command including the dedicated CSI-RS information and threshold to the UE while being protected with RRC security context.
The solution is turned on dynamically according to detection report of network or UE.
A Other false base station detection method of Key Issue #3 could be used too.
The solution reuses agreed conditional handover procedure, and requires new signalling overhead.
Only new IEs are added, so, the impact is small, and the feature can be always turned on.
This solution addresses the security requirement of Key Issue #2: Security protection of system information.
PCI (Physical Cell Identity) is additionally included in the calculation of the MIB/SIB hash.
gNB sends an AS Security Mode Command to the UE with a list of hash values of MIB/SIBs.
The hash values of MIB/SIB are generated by additionally including the PCI of the cell.6.
UE compares the received hash values of the MIB/SIBs with the locally computed ones and determines whether the MIB/SIBs that it has read are correct.7.
UE sends an AS Security Mode Complete optionally including a list of MIB/SIB(s) whose hash mismatch is identified in step 6. 8.
This solution does not require any additional key provisioning and setup procedure.
This solution only requires transporting the hashes of MIB/SIBs or MIB/SIBs using secure RRC signalling.
This solution requires RAN node to provide the hashes of all MIB/SIBs to UE including those that UE is not interested in.
Note: How the solution can work with SI that is modified while the UEs are in connected state is not addressed in the present document.
This solution#20 address the key Issue#2 "Security Protection of system information".
A UE makes cell selection based on a number of criteria including the authenticity of broadcasted system information.
It differs from solutions #7 and #11 in that it delegates digital signing from gNB to a network function, namely Digital Signing Network Function (DSnF).
While delegated digital signing For example, many websites use Content Distribution Networks (CDNs) to improve performance and security (e.g., defending against DDoS and web attacks).
To use CDN, a website would have to share its TLS certificate and the associated private key with CDN.
CDNs servers are distributed on the Internet and Sharing private keys with those untrustworthy servers bear high security risks.
To solve this problem, some banks adopted the concept of delegation and implemented so called Keyless SSL .
Similarly, each cell in this proposal does not have the private key for digital signing.
It sends the information blocks to the DSnF to be digitally signed.
This removes the need for UE to synchronize time with all gNBs.
This contribution also provides additional consideration on how UE verifies message freshness and performs cell selection and additional security analysis of digital signature-based protection.
Solution details- MIB - SIB1- Downlink frequency6.20.2.2.0 GeneralSecond, when some fields in a SIB are to change, new signatures can be requested from DSnF.
Usually SIBs do not change often (e.g., unchanged for about 3 hours).
This short-live certificate can be signed by the DSnF digital signing certificate, thus chained to the trust anchor.
Note 2: how to broadcast short-lived certificate is not addressed in the present document..
When a period of 10.24 s starts, the gNB starts broadcasting the short-term certificate for this period of time.
It is left for normative phase in which SIB this information is broadcasted.
gNB makes digital signing requests via N2 message to AMF/SEAF, which then generates a service request to DSnF.
This new SIB includes the digital signature along with supplement information to facilitate the verification of the digital signature.
It is assumed that the response also contains secondary signing keys.
If a UE does not support digital signature verification, its behaviour in cell scanning and cell selection remain unchanged.
For example, GSMA provides a Network Settings Exchange program, which can be leveraged to maintain the list of trusted CA certificates.
This list of CA certificates needs to be provisioned into UEs as trusted anchors to allow UEs to verify signatures carried in the SIB messages.
This allows for deployment flexibility and trust anchor update when the home operator or any of its roaming partners changes its trust anchor.
The specific parameters of certificate scope can be specified during normative phase.
For instance, a UE might contain a trust anchor associated to an NPN located in a very specific area.
UE uses the acquired system information block to determine which other system information blocks are digitally signed.
With this information, UE can compute a hash over the protected system information along with supplement information elements in the acquired system information block.
UE then uses key identifier to retrieve the public key corresponding to the signing private key.
With the computed hash, and the public key, a digital signature can be verified accordingly depending on the digital signing algorithm being used.
Note: The exact format of the new SIB and signature verification procedure are not addressed in the present document..
If they are close to each other, it indicates the UE time is out of sync with the network.
If the Timer Counters are inconsistent, it indicates the presence of attacker (e.g., by replaying old information).
In either case, UE can select the cell with the highest time counter, since a relayed time counter will highly likely not be the latest.
For requesting and receiving a signed reference time from the DSnF, existing protocols such as NTP could be re-used.
This can ensure that Time Counter in the replayed messages is current.
However, it will have to use the same PCI as the original cell.
Since MIB/SIBs are digitally signed, DoS based on manipulation of chosen fields in MIB/SIBs (e.g., barred cell) will be detected and prevented.
Arbitrarily overwriting a bit (e.g., using SigOver) in a signed MIB/SIBs will result in the failure of digital signature verification.
UE will detect the invalid signature and try to select another cell.
The attacker can then change its frequency and PCI and broadcast MIB/SIBs with invalid signatures again.
UE UE needs to take into consideration results from signature and freshness verification of SI for cell selection and reselection (see clause 6.20.2.5).
Note: further assessment is needed, e.g., SIB acquisition, (gNB) certificate/key acquisition depending on the solution variants.
Note that this requires the trust anchor of the hash chain to be securely deployed by means of a quantum resistant algorithm.
The gNB and UEs will accept the messages only after the message is successfully decrypted.
The locations of the certificates are located in the core network and the UEs.
This solution addresses the security and privacy areas for #1 DoS attack on UE: attempts to hinder the UEs' access to the network.
NOTE 5: It is not addressed in the present document if RAN or CN is the right entity to have UE's public keys.
The UEs extract the certificate from the system information messages and verifies its signature using the core_PUB_key.
If the signature of certificate is valid, the UE extracts the gNB_PUB_Key.
All UEs encrypt RRC messages that are send before primary authentication is completed using gNB_PUB_Key.
ITU-T Recommendation X.509certificate can be used for its flexibility, otherwise more compact certificate format such as Card Verifiable Certificate (CVC) can be considered.
There is no added overhead for the unicast signaling messages encryption from the RAN aspects; however, there is processing cost.
The LMF sends configuration information for the UE to report angle and timing information for each gNB measured at the UE.a.
UE positioning measurements, e.g. the reference signal time difference (RSTD) for the case of Downlink time difference of arrival (DL-TDoA).
b. Reference signal time difference (RSTD) reports (with respect to serving cell and each neighbour gNB) together with TA of serving gNB.
The measurements used for estimation of the angle of departure (AoD) at the gNB side.
This solution enables the network to not only detect the existence of potential false BSs but also estimate the location of the detected false BSs.
As indicated in KI#7, MitM attacks and FBSs are related but different attacks .
This allows the attacker to observe, intercept and manipulate, and/or attack later phases of the communication.
A MitM relay node typically includes a false base station (FBS) and a false UE (FUE).
A layer-two attacker can place a MitM relay node between a real UE (RUE) and a real BS (RBS).
As shown in Figure 6.23.1-1, the MitM attacker can intercept, drop, and forward messages with unaltered or altered content .
These capabilities can lead to multiple attacks including amongst others aLTEr , imp4gt , network misconfiguration , or 5Greasoner .
The allocated RBs are identified by a unique identifier called blockID.
This identifier is assumed long enough and unique within the scope of K_PHYint.
- RBS compute the 24-bit CRC_r value given the received transport block.- RBS checks whether the computed CRC'_r value equals the received CRC' value.
Signaling in cell change can be performed as specified in Clause 6.9.2 in .
Furthermore, some extensions are required to make sure that UE and target gNB run the solution once the handover is completed.
To this end, the current gNB needs to inform the target gNB of the UE's C-CRC capabilities over the Xn Application Protocol defined in .
This can be done in the Handover Request message as part of the UE Security capabilities.
Next, the target gNB needs to confirm whether it supports the C-CRC capability.
Upon reception of this confirmation, the gNB will send a RRCReconfiguration () message informing the UE about the capabilities of the target gNB.
There is no need for key refresh since the cryptographic CRC is only computed and checked till the SFN component of the blockID wraps around.
The MitM relay node does not have, however, K_PHYint, and thus, the MitM relay node cannot compute CRC'.
Next, the UE can receive the SS burst of the base station and the measured SB# power distribution for the different beams.
The distribution of INFO_gnb needs to be done in a secure way.
If the check succeeds, it returns a high similarity score and goes to Step 3.
The network can compare this information with the beam indexes that were used by the UE.
If these two sets of information differ, then the network can detect the FBS presence.
Network initialization: The network is in charge of tracking of the positions of base stations and their radiation patterns.
IntroductionThis solution is based on the link allocated resource parameters between a UE and the gNB, i.e. UE's SFN (system frame number).
This solution does not address the scenario where a malicious node RF repeater relays messages of a victim UE to the real gNB.
This message is included between message 1 and message 2 in the Figure.
This solution addresses key Issue#2 "Security Protection of system information" by using public-key cryptography (PKC) to sign and verify system information.
In this way, a UE has guarantees on the origin of the signed data.
This construction is proposed since this does not require tight time synchronization that might be difficult to achieve in some settings.
each base station gNB broadcasts signed system information (SI), 2. K-SIGPrivate, the private key used to sign the SI, is specific to the Tracking area.
UE verifies the validity of the digital signature with PK, verifying the SI.
Note that this includes verifying whether the certificate has not expired.
The UE will select a gNB based on the received and verified SI.
See Remark 1 in Clause 6.26.2.3.gNB confirms reception of K by sending Hash(K).
a. UE activates C-CRC method using key K after receiving message 5.Standard protocol flow but protected with C-CRC.
UE deactivates the C-CRC method after sending message 10.Standard communication.- Remark 1: This relates to Step 2.
Here, it is assumed that the certificate verification does not require tight time synchronization.
- Remark 2: a UE acquires MIB and SIB1 and signature and performs the signature verification in Step 2.
Note that Steps 3, 4, and so on are only executed if a UE selects a base station.
UE is in IDLE mode only till Step 2. - Remark 3: This relates to Step 4.
The MitM does not have access to K since the MitM does not have K-SIGPrivate.
Since the MitM does not have K, it cannot interfere with the authentication handshake (messages 4-5) and the MitM cannot compute the C-CRC correctly.
NOTE 2: It is not addressed in the present document to explain why this solution is required for INACTIVE state UEs.
This solution addresses both the authenticity and replay protection of system information.
The authenticity is provided by signing system information with a private key only known to the signing party.
Authenticity of the received system information is ensured in any RRC state.1) too big, then a MitM can perform replay attacks.
Figure 6.26.3-1: Impact of a big or small time window when verifying the freshness of messages.
It provides certain security benefits without requiring any additional overhead in key management.
This is demonstrated by the proposed solutions (e.g., #7, #11, and #20) based on digital signature with certificates.
As an alternative approach, the ID based signature scheme is also introduced (e.g., #12).
The unique identity is treated as the public key, which does not require the certificate to be send in the broadcast message..
However, a stolen signing key Thus, a signing key needs to be protected with more caution.
Note this delegated signing has some drawbacks such as transmission delayed and bandwidth overhead.
The choice of signing entities is not addressed in the present document.
Digital signatures are generated by a private key and verified by the corresponding public key.
Public keys and trust anchors need to be distributed to UEs to enable them to verify digitally signed system information.
A public key can be distributed in the form of a raw key or a public key certificate.
A raw key consists of a public key, and maybe some other data such as a key identifier.
A public key certificate such as X.509v3 has a well-defined data structure supporting key life cycle management, key hierarchy, and key usage, among other functionalities.
A public key certificate has rich semantics and supports key hierarchy, allowing multiple public key certificates to be verified using one trust anchor.
Both CRL and OCSP require network connectivity, which had not yet been established at the stage of SIB acquisition.
To this end, we propose a hybrid approach that combines the use of public key certificates and short-lived public keys.
More specifically, a public key certificate is issued to an entity at the core network.
Therefore, the risk window from a compromised signing key can be reduced with certificate revocation.
A public key certificate is issued to an entity in the core network, which then issues short-lived public keys to gNBs.
However, a SIB has a size limit of bits (372 bytes).
It would take two system information blocks to carry one X.509v3 certificate, which does not appear desirable.
Thus, we want to try to avoid transmitting public key certificates to UEs to minimize message overhead.
In this solution, the end entity certificate issued to the core network is configured as a trust anchor.
PKI is often used to manage the lifecycle of public key certificates.
Therefore, decentralized PKIs, each of which can be managed by an individual operator, are supported to remove deployment dependence on other parties.
D4: A decentralized PKI trust model is supported, i.e., each operator issues its own certificates and manages its own trust anchor.
Figure 6.27.2.1.4-1: PKI trust models - centralized vs decentralizedTrust anchors can be provisioned into UEs (e.g., in USIM) using either out-of-band or in-band mechanisms.
However, it In-band provisioning of trust anchors allows an operator to provision its own trust anchor independently while offering deployment flexibility.
For example, if a UE only visits a few roaming partners, the UE will only be provisioned with a few trust anchors.
Please refer to 6.20.2.5.1 of solution #20 for more discussions on root CA, USIM storage required for storing trust anchors, and trust anchor update.
Note that MIB and SIB1 are broadcasted at subframes 0 and 5 respectively at their scheduled frames.
Luckily, the SFN field within the MIB contains only the 6 most significant bits of the 10-bit SFN, thus it changes every 160ms.
In other words, although MIB has a smaller periodicity than SIB1, it remains unchanged within the periodicity of SIB1, i.e., every 160ms.
For example, in Figure 6.27.2.1.7-1, there are 9 MIBs shown, each of which is broadcasted at SFN=0 (0x00) to 8 (0x00) respectively.
SIB6-8 are originated from an external entity to the core network (CBCF and AMF) and then to gNBs.
The digital signing of SIB6-8 in this solution is not considered.
A sequence number, either a serial number or incremental counter value, can uniquely identify a message.
These requirements do not hold in system information broadcasting, since a UE does not acquire every system information block from every gNB.
Timestamp can be included with a message to provide message timeliness to mitigate replay attacks.
A timestamp is included with each SIB, and is digitally signed along with the SIB to mitigate replay attacks.
(in the order of us), andIn this scenario, the total network delay (t_d) is likely less than 1ms, it can be said t_d=1ms .
It can be said say =2ms, which would be the required accuracy of time synchronization.
In reality, MIB and SIBs are broadcasted according to precise scheduling.
There are several options in assigning timestamp (thus a new digital signature) to SIB1.
First, each SIB1 repetition is assigned a new timestamp (see Figure 6.27.2.2.1-2).
Thus, a new digital signature is also computed for each SIB1 repetition in every 20ms.
In this case, there is no scheduled delay to be accommodated.
To generalize, a timestamp is assumed to be shared by N>=1 SIB1 repetitions.
To this end, PCI and downlink frequency, as proposed in Solution 7, can be included in the computation of digital signature of system information.
To replay a digitally signed MIB/SIB1, an attacker would have to use the same PCI and downlink frequency as a legitimate gNB.
D10: PCI and downlink frequency can be digitally signed along with timestamp and MIB/SIB1 to further mitigate replay attacks.
With the network delay ignored, |u2-t2|=3,600,000ms, which is also significantly larger than t_w=3ms.
Thus, the UE will not accept the SIB1 from the second cell either.
This time deviation from the network could result in denial of service to the UE.
Note 1: the protocol for consistency checking and its underlying assumptions needs to be clarified and detailed.
Note 2: potential limitations of consistency checking (e.g.., when a single gNB in reach) and discussion on complementary methods (if required) is ffs.
Digital signatures provide authenticity and message integrity of system information, preventing an attacker from originating any MIB/SIBs or tampering with an existing MIB/SIB.
However, a timestamp Further, PCI This can be illustrated in Figure 6.27.2.2.4-1. NOTE 1: Figure 6.27.2.2.4-1 assumes an omnidirectional antenna.
Attacking area when a gNB uses beamforming is not addressed in the present document.
To summarize, while it is theoretically possible to relay integrity protected system information, the security impact from the relay attack remains to be seen.
Additional mitigation can be further introduced if needed, e.g., based on future research results.
NOTE 2: how to handle NR repeater is not addressed in the present document.
In this case, the cell can be immediately selected if the signal strength meets the criteria.
In all other cases, there is some issue with at least one of the parameters.
Therefore, in any of those cases, the cell cannot be immediately selected, nor fully rejected.
If UE immediately selects a problematic cell, security could be compromised.
If the UE fully rejects such cell, it The UE Table 6.27.2.3-1 suggests a priority for each case.
The first case (#A) is given the priority of 1.1, the highest priority.
Cases #C and #D likely indicate that the UE leaves its home network and enters a roaming partner's network.
Note that the last case (#J) is likely from a legitimate base station that does not implement digital signing.
If all available cells have a priority of 3.x, the UE could decide how to proceed based on local policy.
NOTE1: It is not addressed in the present document whether this cell selection and reselection strategy is feasible needs further study.
It is concluded that there will be no further action as it is stated in the NOTE in the key issue details.
Annex A:A.1 IntroductionImpacts and feasibility on various part of the 5G system (including UE, NG RAN, and 5GC) need to be assessed.
Impacts and feasibility on O&M and key provisioning aspects also need to be assessed.
Other threats that B.2 Attack taxonomyThe attacks against 5G UEs over radio interfaces can be classified into two categories, active attacks and passive attacks.
In active attacks, an attacker actively injects signal or messages to influence what UE would receive.
In passive attacks, an attacker silently sniffs signals exchanged between a UE and a gNB.
For the convenience of reference, a number is assigned to each attack in the attack taxonomy tree.
In attack description, an active attack is prefixed with "A-" and a passive attack is prefixed with "P-".
This can help distinguish an attack number from a clause number.
This can be done continuously, or "smart" at certain times only.
This can lead to 4G attacks, such as identity request, or service reject for that network.
This attacker often involves downgrading the victim UE to 2G where SMS can be sent to the UE without any security protection.
Tampering CP/UP (A-1.3.2.1.1.1): a MITM attacker tampers with control plane message or user plane packet before sending to the recipient.
P-2.1 Uplink sniffing – an attacker sniffs the radio sent by the UE in the uplink channel.
P-2.1.1 IMSI/SUPI stealing – an IMSI/SUPI sent by a UE to the network can be stolen if it is not encrypted.
P-2.2 Downlink sniffing – an attacker sniffs the radio sent by the network in the downlink channel.
User tracking (P-2.2.1): an attacker sniffs downlink traffic of a gNB to observe directly or infer the presence of a user in the area.
Other data sniffing (P-2.2.2): an attacker sniffs downlink traffic to obtain other data that might be used for malicious purpose.
Note: descriptions of more passive attacks are not addressed in the present document.