For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905and the following apply.
In coupling scenario, the interface between components could be considered as internal interface.
Like type 2 in the decoupling scenario, the security assurance requirements of the decoupled components need to be considered respectively.
The security assurance process defined in clause 4.5 of TR 33.916includes evaluating network products, outputting the evaluation report, operator's acceptance decision.
A vendor also performs certification activities for network products in addition to self-declaration after outputting evaluation report.
This process is a general process and can be applied toThe figure 4.6.2-1 describes the security assurance process of the virtualised network products.
+ virtualised layer from vendor X)Evaluation results are checked by operators and dispute on evaluation results is resolved by the SECAM Accreditation Body.
In addition, operator security acceptance decision in clause 4.7 of TR 33.916is general process.
So, it can be applied toSECAM assurance level for 8 of TR 33.916 .
In addition, per network product class being considered only one SECAM assurance level could reduce the complexity of the network product evaluation.
So, SECAM of the virtualised network products also considers only one assurance level per virtualised network product class.
So, SECAM considers only one security baseline per virtualised network product class.
So, these steps can be applied to the process of writing SCAS documents for a given virtualised network product class.
The term ToE if used in a SCAS always refers to the ToE described in the SCAS instantiation.
This ToE definition also can be applied to ToE of virtualised network product.
The generic virtualised network product model classes are described in the following clauses.
For the virtualised network product class type 1 (i.e. implementing 2.3.2.1-1 depicts the components of a generic network product model at a high level.
Compared to generic physical network product, GVNP has also two types of logical interfaces, i.e. execution environment interfaces and remote logical interfaces.
The components in the figure 5.2.3.3.1-1 are further described in the following clauses.
So, the interfaces which are defined by NFV specificationjust include the Ve-Vnfm and the Nf-Vi.
This affects the normal operation of the instantiated GVNP of type 1, and even causes DoS attacks, information leakage.
The Virtualisation layer is out ofIf the Virtualisation layer is compromised, the VNF on top of it could also be easily compromised.
The analysis above focuses on the threats directly placed on VNF-VNFM interface, when it is not well protected.
The threat in clause 5.3.3.1 of TR 33.926is generic, so it also applies to GVNP of type 1.
Weak Password PoliciesThe threat in clause 5.3.3.3 of TR 33.926is generic, so it also applies to GVNP.
However, the attacker using the peeked password accesses GVNP through VNC (Virtual Network Console) rather than through the physical console interface.
The threat in clause 5.3.3.5 of TR 33.926is generic, so it also applies to GVNP of type 1.
Any sensitive data stored on the logical volume of the GVNP.
In addition, there is DoS attack due to changing virtualisation resource that is used by GVNP.
The following clauses will describe the critical threats for GVNP of type 2.Since the 2.4.2.2.3 apply to GVNP of type 2.
The objectives of unauthorized access include VNF and virtualisation layer rather than a computer.
This can result in the reliability, availability or even illegal termination of a GVNP and hence the denial of service.
For GVNP of type 2, other functions not defined byWithout such documentation, all threats identified in clause 5.3.1 of TR 33.926apply.
Then, the attacker can attack the hardware according to the configuration such as CPU type, memory size etc.).
Spoofing identityThe threat in clause 5.3.3.2 of TR 33.926also applies to GVNP of type 3.
For GVNP of type 3, other functions not defined byWithout such documentation, all threats identified in clause 5.3.1 of TR 33.926apply.
The Security Requirements clauses within the pertinent TS contain the security requirements identified according to the threats (see figure 5.2.5.1-1).
This generic way is also applied to SECAM of virtualised network product class.
These general guidelines are also used to guide writing test case of virtualised network product class.
The present clause describes potential security functional requirements and the corresponding test cases, independent of a specific virtualised network product class of type 1.
Clause 5.2.4.2.2.5.2 of the present document, "Software Tampering "; TR 33.848 , clause 5.18, "Key Issue 17: Software Catalogue Image Exposure"Purpose:2.
To test whether the VNF image has been integrity protected or not.
There are NFVO and VIM, or simulated NFVO and VIM.Execute the following steps:2.
During VNF package on boarding, the tester uploads a valid VNF package into a NFVO.
During VNF instantiation, the VIM selects a VNF image with a correct integrity protection value from the image repository to instantiate the VNF image.
The lifecycle management of VNF is set of functions required to manage the instantiation, maintenance and termination of VNF.
The tester captures the communication between the VNF and the VNFM using a tool (e.g. wireshark).Expected Results:2.
Whether VNFs are run on the trusted virtualisation layer or not is based on operator's decision.
To test whether the VNF compares the owned resource state with the parsed resource state.
The tester uses the VNF to query the parsed resource state from the OAM.4.
Expected Results:Expected format of evidence:Requirement Name: Instantiating VNF from trusted VNF imageA VNF The VNF image(s) The authorized party is trusted by the operators.
Review the documentation provided by the vendor describing how digital signature of the VNF image is verified;3.
The tester uploads another VNF package included un-trusted VNF image into NFVO.
The NFVO verifies the VNF image(s) by validating each digital signature of the VNF image using the certificate of the VNF according to the documentation.
The hardening requirements were proposed inare general and generally apply to GVNP of type 1.
All text from, clause 4.3.2.6 applies to GVNP of type 1.Guest OS provided by the vendors is generally based on Linux.
Test case: Test Name: TC_TRAFFIC_SEPARATIONTo test whether traffic belonging to different network domains is separated.
Pre-Condition:The virtualised network product has at least two separate logical interfaces dedicated to different network domains.
Virtualised network products for which the test applies and that fail to meet this precondition fail the test by definition.
This VNF instance has more than one VNFCI (VNF component Instance).
The network between VNFCIs means intra-VNF network which is private network provided by vendor.3.
The tester checks whether a VNFCI refuses inter-VNF traffic on all intra-VNF interfaces.
For example, the tester can send ping to all intra-VNF interfaces through an inter-VNF interface.
The tester tampers a driver on the server and implements the executive environment creation.
Expected Results:Expected format of evidence:Note: The security requirements and related test cases in clause 5.2.5.6y.7.4 only considered in the decoupling scenario.
The VIM manages the hardware resource configuration and state information exchange.
When the VIM is compromised to change the hardware resource configuration, an alert The administrator can check the alert and find the attack at latter.
Test case: Test Name: TC_SECURE HARDWARE RESOURCE MANAGEMENTTo test the hardware alerts the error of the hardware resource configuration from the VIM.Pre-Condition:Execution Steps1.
The tester utilizes the VIM to make an error hardware resource configuration (e.g. error firmware upgrade).Expected Results: The hardware triggers an alert.
Test case: Test Name: TC_SECURE HARDWARE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT INFORMATIONTo test the hardware alerts the error of the hardware resource configuration.
Requirement Description:Test case: Test Name: TC_TRUSTED PLATFORMTo test the platform is trusted.
The tester tampers a BIOS or a file in the host OS kernel and restart the host.
For GVNP of type 2, BVT can be applied for its VNF part.
If its Virtualisation layer part has host OS, BVT is also applied for its Virtualisation part.
All text from, clause 6.2 applied to all types of GVNPs.
- Scope of evaluation.- Information needed to start the Security Compliance Testing, including Basic Vulnerability Testing.
So, all text from TR 33.916, clause 7.2 basically applies to the GVNP.
All text from TR 33.916 , in clause 7.6 applies to virtualised network products.