the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document.
.This key is specified as a permanent key in 3and as a "Long-term secret key shared between the USIM and the AuC" in 3 .
There are currently no standardised processes that change the K for a specific subscription, after issue of a USIM.
OP and OPc are defined in 3for use with MILENAGE based authentication and are related to each other.
OP is defined as 128-bit value chosen by the home network operator which is stored in the AuC/HSS.
Typically, OP and / or TOP are generated by the home network operator and communicated to a UICC manufacturer by non-electronic means.
TOP and TOPc are defined in 3for use with TUAK based authentication and are related to each other.
TOP is defined as 256-bit value chosen by the home network operator which is stored in the AuC/HSS.
TOPc is defined as 128-bit value that is derived from TOP and K which is stored in the USIM.
As the K is expected to change for each USIM, this means that TOPc is likely to be different for each USIM.
This 128 bits for two key 3DES, - 192 bits for three key 3DES,no standardised length for proprietary algorithms.
There is no6 USIM related key stores and key transport processes6.2.1 Personalisation centreGSMA SGP.02and GSMA SGP.22define specific provisioning elements that contain the secret key information.
The UICC stores and uses the OTA keys KIC, KID and DEK as specified by the home network operator.
The LTKUP procedures being re-run before the previous LTKUP procedure completes.
IntroductionProfile is defined as combination of data and applications to be provisioned on an eUICC for the purpose of providing services.
General evaluationThis solution requires no change ofThe usage of the solution is limited to eUICC, and does not apply to traditional UICC/SIM cards.
The solution payment applet, when the whole Profile is replaced by a new one.
This solution has no impact on eSIMs and eSIM provisioning services.
GSMA SGP.22is defined for consumer use and so requires user confirmation.
IntroductionThis solution addresses key issue #1 and #2.For this solution, multiple K/OPc and/or K/TOPc combinations are loaded into the USIM at manufacture.
This solution mitigates Key issue 2 by updating the key to use on each effected USIM individually.
The solution is proposed to use this secure channel to update long term keys.
The UE sends a Profile update result containing the identity of the target profile to the Provisioning server.
Key IssuesThis solution meets key issue 2 by individual updates to each subscriber.
SCP11a could be used as the key exchange protocol to establish keys to protect the long term keys, with necessary enhancement if needed.
The solution could be used for allThis solution requires a global/regional PKI system.
The location of the root of trust is not addressed in the present document.
Exposing the HSS to update One might consider running the key exchange protocol with a proxy for the HSS rather than with the HSS directly.
The UICC.To maintain operator control, and mitigate possible DoS risks, the recommended option is to have the HSS trigger the key exchange protocol.
(The HSS could still initiate the overall protocol by first sending a trigger message to the UICC.)5.
In this option a new signalling protocol is designed between the HSS and the UE.
In this option, the Diffe-Hellman exchange is transported by USIM OTA (3and 116 ).
The next authentication will use the new K values (whether the counter is changed at this point is up to the HPLMN).
As USSD messages are not secured, a security protocol will be needed to allow for integrity protection and replay attack resilience.
The BEST protocol ( ) defines a secure protocol between the UE and the HPLMN.
This protocol can be used between the HSE in the HPLMN and the USIM by using BIP as defined in.
The BEST protocol provides a secure channel with cyphering, integrity protection and replay protection.
For messages from the USIM to the HPLMN the data is sent in an AUTS||MACS as part of a dummy re-synchronisation request.
This requires less exposure of the HSS to possible malicious attack.
This solution will impact the HSS both in terms of new interfaces and loading.
Within solution 4, option 4b has the least impact on current systems.
This solution aims to update the long term key K stored on a USIM application on UICC.
The solution relies on the presence of several sets of parameters (K/OPc or K/TOPc) stored in the USIM.
The personalisation centre generates a new output file containing new set of parameters for this USIM.
After output file reception, the network operator launches an OTAcampaign targeting the corresponding USIM/UICC.
The OTA campaign does not intend to immediately update the parameters in the USIM; the OTA campaign activates the replacement mechanism for the targeted USIM.
If the MAC verification matches, the set of parameters used becomes active and the authentication process can continue with these parameters.
If the home operator selected a new key set, then phase 3 also takes place.
When receiving the OTA command, the UICC verifies the payload using the "replacement mechanism protection" key provisioned in the UICC.
The home operator can decide when to perform a long term key update procedure.
This solution provides high-level description of a mechanism for LTK generation.
This solution addresses the threat described in Key Issue # 3.
This high-level description Step 0: Operator makes a decision based either on the policy or detected LTK compromise to update LTK.
This solution could be used on UMTS, LTE or 5G where a eSIM is used.
Current SIMAlliance specification for eSIM defines the MNO profile as the complete collection of parameters (file structure, data and applications: USIM, etc.).
The profile format definition does not address packaging of specific individual profile elements (e.g., LTK).