The present document considers the consequences of virtualisation onIn legacy deployments, physical rack security and separation implicitly provides underlying security.
Since there is no single approach to virtualisation, the security threats and risks will vary depending on the deployment use case and virtualisation technology choices.
"Virtualization Technology: Cross-VM Cache Side Channel Attacks make it Vulnerable"; Shahzad and Litchfield .OpenStack.
Security; Report on NFV LI Architecture".3: "Procedures for the 5G System (5GS)".3 "Management and orchestration; Architecture framework".
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 905and the following apply.
Sharing hardware resources between VNFs allows networks to scale services up and down as required and to centralize the management and orchestration.
However, the adoption of shared resources raises security questions which do not apply when using discrete physical infrastructure.
In particular, virtualisation technology needs to ensure that VNFs can be isolated from one another, particularly in the case where they have specific security requirements.
There are various approaches to isolating VNFs, ranging from using physically separate hardware to using separate containers.
Where VNFs do share resources, these might be managed in different ways, as discussed in clause 6.5 of GS NFV 002 .
X86 and similar server architectures have a number of physical security weaknesses from a critical national infrastructure perspective.
Furthermore, many data centre hosts are equipped with Baseband Management Controllers and Intelligent Management Interface Protocol.
If an attacker is able to access these controllers, they effectively have direct control over all hosts and all VMs running on them.
For sensitive functions, such as the AUC or LI functions, the risks would obviously be increased.
There are a very wide number of definitions as to the meaning of "virtualisation".
A number of vendors have been offering "virtualised" implementations for 15+ years using common hardware platforms running VM implementation architectures.
However, these limited virtualisation implementations use dedicated hardware instances for each network function.
On the other hand, these limited implementations do not offer many of the benefits, including security benefits, of fully virtualised deployments.
Nearly allApplying the same security policies to NFs in different trust domains could lead to reduced security and/or to reduced functionality.
For example, the long-term keys in a virtual UDM/ARPF could be stolen by an attacker with root access to the virtualisation layer.
Alternatively, cache side-channel attacks as inmight allow the operator of a VNF sharing resources to recover data.
By comparison virtualised In virtualised implementations all NFs are implemented using a common software platform such as OpenStack .
This is required to mitigate the increased attack surface which was partly addressed by physical security assurance protections in physical networks.
outsideThe system assign/log bindings) key storage and confidential data in a manner that provides protection against data compromise.
The same also applies in the case of physical attack in post event forensic scenarios.
If data is decrypted and/or processed in an unencrypted format in an insecure environment it could be intercepted or copied.
Overtime the number of VNFs will increase but mixed network deployments are expected to be the default for the next 10+ years.
While the first VNF and PNF are unharmed by the attack, the second VNF falls foul of the implicit trust of PNF and VNF communications.
Where those VNFs contain cryptographic functions or sensitive information, this increases the risk even further.
If an attack manipulates the network timing source or VNF clock, the network can be compromised.
Combined withCompromising MANO would effectively compromise all VNFs (to a much less extent the same applies to the OSS/BSS).
Unless the IPSec or TLS tunnels transverse a physical network link external to the data centres, the threats they mitigate can largely become irrelevant.
Solutions to this requirement required outsideFirst generation NFV implementations were based on Virtual Machine (VM) architectures.
In comparison to VM only deployments, containers have much faster instantiation times but also much shorter life times.
Containers co-hosted on the same physical machine as tenants share the same kernel and OS resources.
This allows for a potential risk of a rogue container escaping the container confinement and impacting other co-hosted containers.
With container images containing secrets or keys, this becomes a serious threat vector.
An attacker might initiate migration of a VNF from a trustworthy execution environment into a non-trustworthy environment.
While not trivial, this kind of fork or roll-back attacks can be used to initiate complex attacks against the overall integrity of the 5G system.
This separation requires the definition of trust domains but can be implemented and enforced in a variety of different ways.
This can include software defined rules, separate physical infrastructure and appropriate choices of virtualisation infrastructure.
Risk appetite and use case will determine which combination of these controls are appropriate.
All workloads, functions and VNFs are allocated a trust domain, based upon their sensitivity.
Functions identified as security critical do not share trust domains with workloads that are not security critical functions.
Virtualisation provides a well understood, software defined, mechanism to separate network functions.
Software defined traffic rules applied directly to each virtual function are used to limit both incoming and outgoing traffic in an efficient and scalable way.
For example, among other controls, spoofing VLAN/VXLANs of virtual networks is not allowed.
Virtualisation hosts only open the minimum number of ports required and all ports and services are locked down and managed.
This will give confidence that patches against security issues will be done in a timely manner.
The NFVI is kept up to date (including firmware), to minimize security issues.
This solution uses NFVI to address Key Issues #2, #3, #4, #5, and #14.6.4.1 IntroductionAdministration of a network takes place in the management plane.
Exploitation of the management plane could have a long-term impact on the availability and confidentiality of the operator's services, including critical services.
Instead, operators Operators Access to the management plane needs to be temporary and time-bounded.
Administrative access needs to be via secure, encrypted, and authenticated protocols whenever technically practical.
This enclave is protected from eavesdropping, replay and alteration attacks as the programs within the enclave are executed'.
Use of an HMEE in the NFVI provides the means to support at least the following security controls:- Data integrity.
If the HMEE is shared, it needs to provide isolation from collocated VNFs.
The NFVI is designated an appropriate trust domain for VNF deployment based on its HMEE capability.
The validation results assert whether the system under evaluation is in trustworthy state or not.
Local attestation occurs when the Attester and Verifier run on the same physical machine.
The virtualisation software mediates access to virtual resources that it abstracts from the physical resources in the hardware platform.
The hardware platform includes other building blocks (e.g. BIOS, operating systems, etc.) for operation.
Therefore, the scope of attestation of a VNF comprises all the aforementioned systems and components involved.
The chain is extended to include attestation of the VNF when it is first instantiated on top of the NFVI.
Run-time attestation methods for NFVI and VNFs are not considered in this solution.
After successful attestation of the OS, it will act as attester for the layer above.
The attestation results and corresponding measurements are maintained by a verifier for subsequent access.
This architecture assumes the NFVI has been successfully attested and the virtualization layer software can act as the attester for VNFs.
Figure 6.6.3.5-1: Reference architecture with PACF integrated with NFV architectureNote: Communication between the PACF and NFV MANO is not addressed in the present document.
Note a: The process for verifying attestation results of the NRF and PACF is not addressed in the present document.
The modified NF Service Registration procedure retrieves attestation results based on the NF Instance ID in the NF profile.
Besides the above procedures defined in g. MANO defined in .NOTE 2: The Verifier itself can also be distributed in different layers.
The consumer requests and receives the OAuth 2.0 token from the NRF.
During the token request the NRF authenticates the NF requesting the token.
Remote Attestation is executed during each interaction between consumer and NRF and between consumer and producer.
The request includes a nonce, which will be used to ensure the freshness of the evidence provided in the subsequent steps.
The attestation server appraises the provided evidence using endorsements and refence values.
The attestation server returns the result of the appraisal to the provisioning serverStep 9.
To implement necessary access controls, this solution proposes using a ticket-based authentication mechanism and ABAC.
It uses shared secret key cryptography to provide a secure connection between the client, Key Distribution Centre (KDC), and server.
Note that the VNFs themselves and the infrastructure they run on (NFVI) can and The KDC can be per domain or can serve several domains.
Admin can use the session key to communicate securely with the resource (NFVI/VNF) for the duration of time on the ticket.
The reference point between the admin and the NFVI or the VNF, Nf-Vi and Ve-Vnfm reference points respectively, are defined in NFV 002 .
For example, a NF in a network slice needs to be isolated from other NFs in the same slice.
In addition, it is proposed thatIt is proposed to first define a set of isolation principles for network design.
The current solutions cover the following key issues:Only for key issue #9 there are 2 solutions: solution #1 and solution #8.
Solution #1 defines trust domain and concept of physical/logical isolation between trust domains in high level.
Functions that support the administration and security of the NFVI are treated as security critical functions.