The ability to store various security parameters is standardised for the ARPF and the UDR.
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 905 , 501and the following apply.
This model corresponds to a maximally stateless ARPF deployment model where UDR is used for storing all security parameters.
During the registration procedure, the AMF determines to trigger the primary authentication on–demand for the UE.
If the primary authentication is required, the AMF requests it from the AUSF.
Upon request from the AMF, the AUSF executes authentication of the UE.
In the primary authentication procedure, the ARPF is required for key storage, authentication methods storage, and key derivation.
If secondary authentication is required, the SMF triggers EAP authentication procedure.
The UE and the DN AAA server exchange EAP message for secondary authentication.
On the network side, the credential of the UE for secondary authentication is stored in DN-AAA.3defines a mechanism for subscription identifier privacy over-the-air.
If the stored long-term key is obtained, then it can be used to access previously recorded communications.
If the long-term key is obtained during transfer out of the UDR, then it can be used to access previously recorded communications.
If the stored OPc value can be modified in the UDR, this can cause a DOS attack by invalidating regular authentication subscription data.
If the stored OP value can be modified in the UDR, this can cause a DOS attack by invalidating regular authentication subscription data.
If the stored OP value can be modified in the UDR, this can cause a DOS attack by invalidating regular authentication subscription data.
If the stored TOPc value can be modified in the UDR, this can cause a DOS attack by invalidating regular authentication subscription data.
The solution is based on storing the long-term key encrypted in UDR and transferring it also encrypted over Nudr.
As any other SBA reference point, Nudr is additionally protected using TLS as defined in 3 .
These two protection levels make impossible for any intermediate actor to eavesdrop or modify the long-term key while in transit over Nudr.
That is, the decryption key is required to be protected from physical attacks and never leave the secure environment of the UDM/ARPF unprotected.
It This solution addresses key issue #2 on "protection of long-term key during storage in UDR".
At generation of a long-term key an encryption key is used that is shared with the UDM/ARPF where it is decrypted during primary authentication.
That is, the decryption key is required to be protected from physical attacks and never leave the secure environment of the UDM/ARPF unprotected.
It This solution addresses key issue #3 on "protection of long-term key during transfer out of UDR".
The long-term key is transferred in encrypted form between UDR and UDM/ARPF.
The encryption algorithm used and the method for the handling of the encryption/decryption key(s) needs to conform to the security policy requirements of the operator.
transporting the OPc value in encrypted form during its transfer from UDR to UDM/APRF, andThis solution requires that the UDM/ARPF stores the decryption key.
That is, the decryption key is required to be protected from physical attacks and never leave the secure environment of the UDM/ARPF unprotected.
It This solution addresses key issue #7 on "protection of Milenage OP value during transfer out of UDR".
If stored in the UDR, the Milenage OP value is transferred in encrypted form between UDR and UDM/ARPF.
The encryption algorithm used and the method for the handling of the encryption/decryption key(s) needs to conform to the security policy requirements of the operator.
That is, the decryption key is required to be protected from physical attacks and never leave the secure environment of the UDM/ARPF unprotected.
It This solution addresses key issue #4 on "protection of Milenage OPc value during storage in UDR".
At generation of the Milenage OPc value an encryption key is used that is shared with the UDM/ARPF where it is decrypted during primary authentication.
That is, the decryption key is required to be protected from physical attacks and never leave the secure environment of the UDM/ARPF unprotected.
It This solution addresses key issue #6 on "protection of Milenage OP value during storage in UDR".
At selection of the Milenage OP value an encryption key is used that is shared with the UDM/ARPF where it is decrypted during primary authentication.
That is, the decryption key is required to be protected from physical attacks and never leave the secure environment of the UDM/ARPF unprotected.
It This solution addresses key issue #8 on " protection of sequence number SQNHE during storage in UDR".
For access by other NFs, the solution is based on the use of access tokens created using the OAuth 2.0 based authorization framework.
The solution trusts these access tokens to protect SQNHE from retrieval by unauthorized NFs.
At generation of the TUAK TOPc value an encryption key is used that is shared with the UDM/ARPF where it is decrypted during primary authentication.
That is, the decryption key is required to be protected from physical attacks and never leave the secure environment of the UDM/ARPF unprotected.
It This solution addresses key issue#9, "protection of sequence number SQNHE during transfer out of UDR".
This solution is based on capabilities defined or planned to be defined inThis solution does not require changes to normative specifications.
This solution addresses key issue #11 on "protection of TUAK TOPc value during transfer out of UDR".
If stored in the UDR, the TUAK TOPc value is transferred in encrypted form between UDR and UDM/ARPF.
The encryption algorithm used and the method for the handling of the encryption/decryption key(s) needs to conform to the security policy requirements of the operator.
Exporting a protected copy of the decryption keys to a backup location is recommended.
- Coexistence with Authentication vector generation functions in other domains (i.e. HSS/AuC).
The HSS does not only support the AuC functionality but also acts as ARPF to generate authentication vectors as defined in.
HSS/AuC and UDM/ARPF generates authentication vectors for their respective domains accessing to the subscription credentials stored in the common EPS+5GS UDR.