Localized service: Service, which is localized (i.e. provided at specific/limited area) and/or can be bounded in time.
The UE can only provide SUCI/Onboarding SUCI in case it is configured with SUPI privacy parameters.
This solution proposes to use a hash of the key KTNGF as identifier in case anonymous SUCI is used during the authentication towards the SNPN.
The new identifier is proposed to be a hash of the key KTNGF.
It is proposed to send the new identifier using the IDi payload.
The RFC does not specify how such a key identifier is generated.
This solution reuses the authentication procedure in clause 7A.2.4 ofwith the following modifications.
In step 2, NAI includes identifier of SNPN (i.e. PLMN ID and the NID of the SNPN).
- N5CW sends UE identity (e.g. SUCI/on boarding SUCI) and AN parameters to the TWAP/TWIF.
This gives a UE and SNPN the means to mutually authenticate and hereby confidentiality, integrity and replay protect the communication as stated in the requirements.
This solution extends the NSWO procedures to be able to use any key-generating EAP-method in SNPN.Steps 1-2 are performed as described in Annex S.3.2 of.
Authentication is performed between the AUSF and UE using the selected EAP method.
The decision to use MSK instead of EMSK is based on the NSWO indicator received in step 5.
Steps 9-11 are performed as described in steps 16-18 of Annex S.3.2 of.
It reuses the procedures of Annex S ofas much as possible adding the possibility of using any key-generating EAP-method.
To access the hosting network, the UE determines whether it can reuse home network credentials.
Localized service advertisements prompt UE's user using default credentials where UE authenticates with the DCS (e.g., perAnnex I.9.2).
e.g., After a successful onboarding procedure, the LSP sends a Security Profile corresponding to the UE and LSP certificate to the LSP access.
The Security Profile associated with the LSP contains all the necessary data to establish a TLS tunnel between the LSP and UE.3.
UE requests a PDU Session and accesses the localized service of the LSP via the Hosting Network.
Upon expiry of the time-restricted credentials, the LSP in the role of Credential Holder requests a release of the UE.
In contrast, the PVS information provided by the DCS takes precedence over the information stored in the onboarding network.
This solution addresses Key Issue #2 "Authentication for UE access to hosting network".
There is a business relationship between hosting network and home network.
There is no business relationship between hosting network and home network.
For case 1), the business relationship between hosting network and home network can have different implications on the authentication architecture.
For case 1b), the authentication to the hosting network can be based on the PLMN-credentials of the home network.
For case 1c), the authentication to the hosting network can also be based on the PLMN-credentials of the home network.
In case 2a), the UE needs new credentials to authenticate to the hosting network.
Onboarding requires default UE credentials to be pre-configured on the UE.The high-level solutions described in the solution details do not have normative specification impact.
The hosting network enables the UE to get onboarded through the onboarding service provided, implying credentials to the hosting network/service is installed.
The service provider and user contractual agrees to enable the service.
This implies that the service provider, provides the UE with the default UE credentials.
The UE registers to the hosting network and authenticates using credentials provisioned in step 2.
The SMF in the hosting network will initiate the secondary authentication as described inclause 11, as defined for the local breakout configuration.
The AAA can either be managed by the service provider or the hosting network.
Figure 6.14.2-1 shows a modified version of Figure 4.2.15-3 of, where HPLMN is replaced with CH and VPLMN is replaced by SNPN.
The ability to differentiate the authentication of the UE between NSWO case and primary authentication case has not been addressed in the present document.
This solution solves Key issue #1 in case of the SNPN wants to reuse the credentials from CH AAA for NSWO.
The solution covers the following different scenarios of authentication related to Providing Access to Localized Services (PALS) based on TR 23.700-08 .Case 1.
The UE hosting network access relies on other credentials (e.g., preconfigured/provisioned using application layer outside the scope of 700-08Clause 8.4.3).
Further the realm part of the NAI facilitates to route to the right external CH."For case 1, no impact as existing mechanism fromis reused.
The solution proposes the usage of a pseudonymous SUCI for the case of onboarding.
However, identifiers used during onboarding are generally only used once, since onboarding only happens once.
Therefore, a pseudonymous SUCI is not needed in the case of onboarding.
For case 1), The authentication method specified in in Annex I.2 ofcan be reused for UE access to SNPN as hosting network.
Existing primary authentication can be reused for UE access to PNI-NPN as hosting network.
In the case of PNI-NPN as hosting network using S-NSSAI, slice-specific authentication can also be used.
This solution addresses Key issue #1 in the case of NSWO using SNPN credentials from Credentials Holder AAA.
Remaining steps are performed as described in steps 16-18d of Annex S.3.2 of.
It reuses Annex S.3.2 and clause I.2.2.2 of, thus require minimal normative specification.