The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of the present document.
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 905and the following apply.
A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 905 .
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 905and the following apply.
An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in 905 .
Generic security requirements and test cases common to other network product classes have been captured inand are not repeated in the present document.
Present clause contains gNB-specific security functional adaptations of requirements and related test cases.
Expected format of evidence: Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g. Screenshot containing the operational results.
This requirement does not apply to the gNB that is used as a secondary node connecting to the EPC.
Threat References: TR 33.926 , clause D.2.2.4 – User plane data integrity protection.
Expected Results: Any user plane packets sent between UE and gNB over the NG RAN air interface after gNB sending RRCConnectionReconfiguration is integrity protected.
Expected format of evidence: Evidence suitable for the interface e.g. Screenshot containing the operational results.
The gNB verifies the integrity of the RRC message from the UE.
Expected Results: The RRC message is discarded by the gNB after step 1a) or after step 2b).
The gNB verifies the integrity of the PDCP PDU from the UE.
Expected Results: The PDCP PDU is discarded by the gNB after step 1a) or after step 2b).
Pre-Condition: - The gNB network product The UE - The tester Execution Steps: 1.
The AMF sends a KgNB and the UE security capability to the gNB.
The gNB selects an algorithm and sends AS SMC to the UE.
The gNB receive AS SMP from the UE.Expected Results: Control plane packets sent to the UE after the gNB sends AS SMC is ciphered.
Expected format of evidence: Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g. Screenshot containing the operational results.
Pre-Condition: - The gNB network product The UE - The tester Execution Steps: 1.
The SMF sends a UP security policy with UP ciphering required or preferred to the gNB.(-08)113.
Expected format of evidence: Evidence suitable for the interface e.g. Screenshot containing the operational results.
Replay protection of user data between the UE and the gNB.
Pre-Condition: - The gNB network product The UE - The tester - The tester Execution Steps: 1.
Tester Expected Results: The user plane packets sent between the UE and gNB over the NG air interface is replay protected.
Expected format of evidence: Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g. Screenshot containing the operational results.(-08)123.2.2.1.9 Replay protection of RRC-signalling Requirement Name: Replay protection of RRC-signalling.
Pre-Condition: - The gNB network product - Tester - The tester - The tester Execution Steps: 1.
Tester Expected Results: The RRC signalling over the NG RAN air interface is replay protected.
Expected format of evidence: Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g. Screenshot containing the operational results.
The tester - RRC ciphering is already activated at the gNB.
The tester triggers PDU session establishment procedure by sending PDU session establishment request message.
The tester And filter the RRC connection reconfiguration message sent by gNB to UE. 4.
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g. Screenshot containing the operational results.
The tester triggers PDU session establishment procedure by sending PDU session establishment request message.
The tester Expected Results: The user plane packets are integrity protected based on the security policy sent by the SMF.
Expected format of evidence: Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g. Screenshot containing the operational results.
Purpose: Verify that the gNB performs K refresh when PDCP COUNTs are about to wrap around.
The gNB sends the AS Security Mode Command message to the UE, and the UE responds with the AS Security Mode Complete message.
The UE sends RRC messages or UP messages to the eNB with an increasing PDCP COUNT until the value wraps around.
Expected Results: The gNB triggers an intra-cell handover and takes a new K into use.
Expected format of evidence: Part of log that shows the PDCP COUNT wraping around and the intra-cell handover.
The following testcases are only tested when the NR-NR DC, NE-DC and EN-DC scenarios are deployed.
A SCG bearer is set up between the UE and the SN.
Expected format of evidence: Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g. text representation of the captured SN Modification Request message.
Purpose: Verify that the gNB under test acting as a Secondary Node (SN) requests K update when PDCP COUNTs are about to wrap around.
Pre-Conditions:(-08)183- Test environment with an ng-eNB or gNB acting as the Master Node (MN), which - Test environment with a UE which Execution Steps 1.
The MN establishes RRC connection and AS security context with the UE.
A SCG bearer is set up between the UE and the gNB under test.
Protocol traces of the Uu interface showing the last packets on Uu including PDCP COUNT reset due to rekeying, rather than a PDCP COUNT wrap-around.
Protocol traces of the Xn interface including the captured SN Modification Required message.
Protecting data and information – general There are no gNB-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.1 of.
Protecting data and information – unauthorized viewing There are no gNB-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.2 of.
Protecting data and information in transfer There are no gNB-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.4 of.
Logging access to personal data The requirement and testcase in clause 4.2.3.2.5 ofare not applicable to the gNB network products.
Handling of ICMP of : - Echo Reply can be sent by default.
In case of remote base station auto deployment, Router Advertisement can be processed.
Apart from the above exceptions, there are no gNB-specific additions to clause 4.2.4 of.
Interface robustness requirements There are no gNB-specific additions to clause 4.2.6.2.2 of.
of.(-08)203The present clause contains gNB-specific adaptations of hardening requirements and related test cases.
The requirements and test cases in clause 4.3.6 ofare not applicable to the gNB network products.